
                           Ambermoon Walkthrough
                           ---------------------



                         Written April-July, 1999
                            © Michael Böhnisch
                      Published by Thalion Webshrine



I. Preface
----------

This file describes a complete walkthrough of the Thalion game "Ambermoon"
- still one of the finest RPGs I've ever seen.
I  played version 1.05 (German) when I finished the game for the first time
back  in  1995.   For  the  walkthrough I used version 1.07 (English) and I
found  some  minor  differences.  Wherever I noticed a change from v1.05 to
v1.07 I added a corresponding remark.

Although  there  is  a general plot in Ambermoon, the sequence you play the
smaller  sub-quests  is  not  strictly  fixed.  Often you may solve them in
arbitrary  order  or  even do one of them in part, go somewhere else if you
get stuck and return later.
This  freedom  of  action  greatly enhances the fun of the game and adds to
realism.  Feel free to vary the order given in this text.

Using  special  knowledge  acquired  later in  the game (or by reading this
walkthrough)  you may become tempted to use shortcuts to the storyline.
Be  warned!   Not  only  you might easily miss parts of the game, there are
several  consistency  checks  built  into  the  program  that try to detect
cheating.  Cheaters might suffer nasty surprises...

I describe the first steps in Lyramion, the world that stages the Ambermoon
story,  in  great  detail.   I  did  so  to  make the start easier for less
experienced  gamers.
In  case  you  are  a leather-necked role playing game swashbuckler, please
forgive   my   talkativity.    I'll  gradually  reduce  the  depth  of  the
description.  References  to  common  equipment like torches or slingstones
will be left out in the description of treasury later in the text.
Be sure, though, I'll hint you to any exotic or important item and place in
the  game.
Also,  because  I'm writing this text partly for my own pleasure, I allowed
myself  to  exert some wicked sense of humour. It tends to be a little lewd
now  and then.  Please don't feel offended by the few places I followed the
advice of that little red demon that whispers in my ear and try to read the
text in the same relaxed manner it was written.


                                                        Have fun,
                                                        Michael Böhnisch



II. Spannenberg & Environs
--------------------------


1. Exploring your home

You  start your quest at home in the sleeping room of your grandfather.  He
is in his bed, deadly sick.  Say "HELLO" to him and listen what he's got to
say.

Your  first task is to fetch some of the old equipment of your grandpa from
the  cellar of the house.  But first you should prepare yourself - even the
cellar of the house you live in is not without dangers.
There  is  a wardrobe at the northern wall of your grandpa's sleeping room.
Open  it  and  you'll  find  a  robe, a pair of leather shoes, a buckler, 6
healing  potions  II,  3  healing potions III and 3 potions of cure poison.
Take  everything  out  and  wear  the clothes.  You can discover some other
armour in your own room, but the things of your grandfather are better.
There  is  a locked chest near the eastern wall of the room.  Ignore it for
now, you need a special key to open it.
Now  go south, then east and into the entry hallway.  On the northern wall,
east  of  the  door  hangs a magical picture.  Take it and use it.  It will
provide  you  with  a  view  that  permanently  indicates  day and night on
Lyramion's surface - even if you are deep in some dungeon.
Located to the east of the hallway is your own sleeping room.  The wardrobe
at  the  northern wall contains clothes, a pair of sandals and a hat.  Take
out  the  hat and wear it.  The chest to the east holds 2 lockpicks, a rope
and 37 gold coins.  Take out a single lockpick and leave the rest.
Head back for the hallway and go north to the dining room.  A book shelf to
the  west  has  the Book Of Arachnids.  Get and read it, it contains a hint
how  to  handle  a certain kind of spider's web.  The cupboard at the north
wall  contains  a  set  of  silver cutlery.  Leave it there for the moment,
later  you  can sell it and get some money to buy better weapons and armour.
Put  the  book into the cupboard.  Once you have read the hint, there is no
need to burden yourself with it anymore.
Go  west  into the kitchen.  A cupboard near the north-western corner holds
two  knives, a dagger and 15 rations of food.  Take out the dagger only and
ready it.
To the west of the kitchen there is a small storage room.  The baskets here
contain 6 rations and 5 torches.  Take all of it and use a torch.

This  is  a  good  opportunity to save the game for the first time.  You're
ready now to overcome the lurking horrors of your grandpa's cellar!


2. Grandfather's cellar

Go  down  the stairs and follow the passage first east, then south.  You'll
find a square-sized room with doors to the east, the south and to the west.
Don't  bother  if  you  encounter  a small spider at the ceiling or running
around  on the floor.  These small ones won't harm you - probably they feel
more fear than you do.  (At least that's what my mommy kept telling me when
I  was  little.  Check the number of legs you own before you enter my room,
though.  Chances for survival are low if your count exceeds two.)

It's  easy  to  loose orientation in the 3-D dungeons if you're not used to
the  steering.   Simply use the map gadget whenever you're not sure of your
location.

A  well can be found in the centre of the room.  Do not touch it yet!  Pass
the  east  door  and discover a short sword in the south east corner of the
adjacent   room.    Ready  it  and  keep  your  dagger  in  your  backpack.
Unfortunately  your  inexperienced  hero is a bit clumsy and tends to break
his weapons when using them.  Try to always have some replacement in store.

Go  back  to  the  room  with  the well and have a look at it.  Isn't there
something  moving  beyond  the water surface?  Try to grab it and stir up a
deadly, dangerous pond lizard!
This  vicious  beast horrendously darts at you and attacks!  It is one feet
and  some inches long - at the very least!!!  Defend your ankles, fight for
your life and finish the monster off.
Congratulations!   You  just killed the first in a long row of opponents in
the  adventures  to  come.  Be sure to take the tasty remains of the lizard
with  you  (two  rations  of food).  Some supply of food always is handy to
have.  During a rest your character needs one ration to regain health after
a fight.

If  you  broke  your  sword or your robe during the fight, this is very bad
news  right  now and hard to take.  There are some more fights to win until
there  is  an opportunity  to get equally suited replacement.  You might as
well reload your saved game and retry the fight for a better result.  Also,
this is the main reason why should save your game now and after any further
melee  if  everything went well.  Make this a habit until you are sure of a
reasonable supply of equipment.
Later  in  the  game  the danger to break some invaluable equipment becomes
smaller gradually.
Of  course, if you feel this is cheating, you may as well show you have the
guts  to  continue without reloading after such an accident.  Be sure of my
deep respect.

Now  go through the west door and head north.  You'll get attacked by a big
spider  but  you  should  be  able  to handle the fight.  The room you just
entered holds 2 potions of cure poison, 5 potions of healing I and a potion
of  healing  II.   Go  to  the  west  into a food storage room.  Yummy!  39
rations of food just for you alone!

Go  back to the door to the well's room but do not pass it.  Instead follow
the  passage to the south.  After a bend to the west, pass a door south and
your way is blocked by a spider's web.  Simply walk through it, it's easily
ripped, just to be attacked by another big spider.

Follow  the  passage  until another web is in your way.  This one is not as
easy  to  destroy as the first one.  Save your game now!  The next fight is
quite  tough  and there is a good chance of not surviving it.  As an option
you may well ignore the web for now and return here later.
If  you  decide for heroism now, you have to find a way to destroy the web.
Do  you remember the hint from the Book of Arachnids?  Stand right in front
of  the  web  and use a torch.  The web will burn up and a big spider and a
poison  spider  will  attack  you.   As a hint for the fight, use a healing
potion  if your health drops below 5 points, concentrate on one enemy first
and  finish  him off before attacking the next one.  The poison spider will
cast  some  intoxication  spells on you first (with a very moderate success
rate).   If  you  get  poisoned, ignore this for now.  Use a potion of cure
poison after the fight to cure the condition.
As  a  reward  you  get  a nice dose of 65 experience points and you find a
chest  in  the north-west corner of the spider's lair.  Use the lockpick on
the  chest and collect as many items as you can carry.  The contents of the
chest is quite impressive:

   3 healing potions I,
   1 healing potion II,
   2 potions of cure poison,
   1 revitalizing flask,
   4 spell point potions I,
   1 spell point potion II,
   1 scroll of Dispel Undead,
   3 scrolls of Light,
   2 scrolls of Blink,
   1 scroll of Magic Shield,
   1 scroll of Hurry,
   4 scrolls of Monster Knowledge,
   1 scroll of Knowledge,
   5 scrolls of Magical Compass,
   1 scroll of Find Persons,
   4 scrolls of Magical Projectile,
   1 scroll of Sleep,
   2 scrolls of Mudsling,
   1 scroll of Winddevil,
   1 stonesling,
   3 ropes,
   and 58 coins of gold.

The  scrolls with white letters are for healers, the blue coloured ones are
alchemist's  scrolls,  the  yellow ones hold mystic knowledge and the black
ones have inscriptions of destructive powers.
Close  windows  and  lock  your  door  before  using  them.   In  a single,
continuous stroke draw a thirteen-pronged star to the floor.  Place a black
coloured, cursed candle into each of the corners.  Dance three times around
the  freshly  chopped  head of a rabbit.  Anti-clockwise.  Incant the words
for evocating a major demon.
If  you  now  sense  a strange odour you just created a good opportunity to
change your pants.

To  be  honest,  the scrolls are not of much use for you now.  Keep them in
store  in  your  house,  though.   Later  you and your companions can learn
spells  written  on  them  to  aid thee in your quest. 
Note  that  character  class  restricts  which scrolls you are able to use.
Some  classes  can  read scrolls only, not learn the spells, a feature that
might help in desperate situations.  Fighters can't use them at all.

Most  probably  you cannot carry that many items.  Transport as much as you
can  back  to  your  room up in the house, put the scrolls and ropes into a
chest, cupboard or other container.  Return here and pick up the rest.

Now  go  back  to the room with the well and go through the south door.  In
the  south-east  corner  of  the  room  you  will  find  6 torches.  To the
north-west there are 13 slingstones.
There  is a door to the south.  Pass it and follow the passage up to a wall
with  a riddle mouth.  Talk to the mouth and tell him the code word "WINE",
just  as  your  grandfather  instructed  you.  The wall with the mouth will
vanish and allow passage to the east, then north.
A  sign  next to the door you now see indicates that you are about to enter
the  wine  cellar  of  your  grandpa.  Go in and collect the 27 slingstones
found  on  the west side.  The north wall has a button.  Touch it using the
"hand"  gadget  and  a  wall opens to the west, just to release another big
spider.  Kill the creep and climb down the ladder to...


3. The Old Cave - first level

To  the  west  you will stumble upon "Shandra's Amber", a small amber stone
that  looks  innocent  but  is an important item later in the game.  As you
approach  the south wall you will notice that further passage is blocked by
a cave-in.

Return to your grandfather.


4. Spannenberg

Talk  to  grandfather  and  show  him  the amber stone.  He has no idea why
Shandra gave it to him in the past but suspects it may be needed to contact
the  dead  mage.   Tell  him  about  the  "CAVE-IN" and he instructs you to
journey  to  the  city  of Spannenberg, where you shall meet a horse-dealer
named  Tolimar.   He  can  provide  you with the tools needed to remove the
obtrusion.

Store  the  amber  into  a chest and get the silver cutlery from the dining
room.   Collect  all gold from your home, the suit of clothes, the sandals,
the two remaining knives and the stonesling.  Leave most of your rations at
home.  5 rations are enough as a waybread.

Leave  the  house and follow the road to the west until you reach the city.
Do  not  travel  at  night, you may easily overlook some river, fall in and
drown.

Enter the town and save your game.  

Explore  the  town  by  yourself, but take care of bandits!  The places you
will  want  to  visit  first  are the equipment shop and the fight trainer.
Whenever  you're  short  of  hit  points you should have a look at the map.
Glowing  spots  mark visited places you can reach "directly" by clicking on
them.   You  do  not  have  to  make  the possibly perilous travels through
backstreet  alleys  to return to the city gate.  Leave the town on occasion
and take a nap outside - this is much cheaper than resting at the inn.

As  a  general  guideline you should talk to everyone you meet.  If you get
attacked, try to collect as much valuable equipment from your prey and sell
it  at  the shop.  Armour is generally more expensive than weapons and thus
is preferred loot.  Always use the best equipment you can afford.
Keep  your  fingers  away  from  the  barrels  you can see in some corners,
they're nothing more than traps.

First, a short overview:


  A. The Merchant (east)

  Sell  any  excess  equipment you bring with you from home.  After combat,
  sell the collected equipment here and buy better equipment for yourself.

  Also  note  that  money has weight, too.  You may want to return home now
  and  then  to  store  excess  money  -  you will need the treasure later.
  Another  good  idea  is to use the chest in Sandra's room at the healer's
  place  for  intermediate storage.  See the walkthrough for details.


  B. The Trainer (west)

  Train  your  attacking  skills  as  much as possible.  Attack is the best
  defence!  Don't bother about parrying.  Later, when you have put the more
  important  skills  to  maximum  you  can think of some additional defence
  training.
  A new party member can be picked up here.


  C. Tolimar's Horse Shop (south-east)

  Buy horses and start a quest.


  D. "The Limping Rogue" inn (south)

  A  place  to spend the evenings listening to rumours and to regain health
  sleeping  overnight.   Sleeping at the inn is expensive, though.  Use the
  healer's place for a cheaper room or simply camp outside the town.

  The  landlord  of  the inn is somehow related to the local thieves guild.
  Also there's that strange stairs behind the desk...


  E. The Wharf (south-west)

  This  shop  is  closed  at the moment - Captain Torle, the owner, is on a
  journey.


  F. The Healers (west)

  This  place is a treasure trove of knowledge.  Keep away from the cellar,
  we'll  go  there  as soon as it is of use.  You cannot get healing in the
  healer's  shop  at the moment as Father Anthony is away but you're always
  welcome to stay overnight for a few gold coins.

  The healer's library sells magic scrolls.  There's no need to buy them.


  G. The Sage (west)

  Mystic  scrolls  are sold here.  Nearly never in the game you have to buy
  expensive  scrolls,  spend  your  money for something else.  Also you can
  identify items here for some gold.


  H. The cemetery (north-west)

  Do  not  enter  here  until  you  have some good weaponry and gained some
  experience!   Especially restrict yourself from going through the passage
  in the hedge to the east...


  I. Townhall I (north-east)

  In  this  house  you find a fisherman and his deadly sick child.  To save
  the  little  girl  from  death  is your main and final quest on your home
  island!


  J. Townhall II (north-east)

  A  couple lives here that was stolen a pair of golden goblets.  Returning
  the goblets is rewarded.


  K. The palace of Baron George (north)

  Lady  Heidi  and  her husband, Baron George live here.  He's got problems
  with the bandits and Orcs that terrorize Spannenberg.  Also he misses his
  chain of office.


  L. The City Garden (centre)

  Explore the garden.  In the centre you'll discover a well.


  M. The Food Shop (east)

  Most  probably  you  will  not  need this shop at all - if you ever start
  running  out  of  food,  return  home  and  fetch  some rations from your
  storage.  Killing a bandit gives you three rations for free...


First, meet the merchant at the east side of the city.  If you get ambushed
by  bandits,  don't  be  worried.   They're not that dangerous.  The silver
cutlery  sells  for  enough money to give you a good start.  Get rid of the
clothes,  the  pair  of sandals and the knives, too.  Buy leather boots and
sell  your  leather  shoes.   Avoid  longswords for your character.  You'll
break  them  too often until you're level 7 or 8.  Buy a second short sword
as  soon  as  you  can afford.  If you already have been "robbed" sell your
robe  and  wear  a  leather  armour.   Sell  any daggers and excess leather
armours.
The  merchant's hold can keep a limited number of different items only.  If
it  runs  out of space buy one of the special items at the end of the list,
e.g.   the  rune  alphabet to create new space.  Use the rune alphabet when
you  have it to get clearance to use the rune sheet that came packaged with
the game.
Other  items that should make you curious are the wind pearl and the emerald
stone.   They  are  expensive  but  they  are  needed  later  in  the game.
Currently, they are of no use for you.  Buy them if you have a lot of money
you  don't  know how to spend otherwise and keep them in a safe place.  The
same applies to the jewellery found in other shops.

Second,  go  to  the  trainer at the west side of the city.  In the western
training  room  you will find Egil, a young warrior.  Talk to him when he's
watching  the  attack training and question him about "ORKS" and "BANDITS".
Invite him to join your party.  He's not too bright but strong as an ox and
a  good companion.  He will happily help you slaughtering bandits, Orcs and
undead  creep and also is a big aid in carrying items.  His magic abilities
are  comparable  to  the  secret powers hidden in an ordinary wooden spoon,
though.  Do not forget to give him training, too.  Also, you should arrange
the  fighting formation of your party to something reasonable as soon as he
joins you.
He  is  able to handle most weapons and armours and only very seldom breaks
an item.  The longsword is OK for him now.

Explore the rest of the city and enjoy killing bandits. 

Tolimar, the shop keeper of the stables is happy to provide you with horses
(buy  some,  makes  traveling  the  island  easier a lot) - in exchange for
money, of course.
Also,  he  will  give  you the needed digging tools to enter the cave below
your  house  -  if you return him a complete set of four golden horse-shoes
that have been stolen from him first.
You  will hate this guy.  Prepare some special place in your heart reserved
for him exclusively - about directly below garter snakes and murderers.

In  the  centre  of  the town you will find a garden and a well.  This is a
wishing  well!   In  the  course  of your adventures you will collect magic
coins.   When used at these wells (there are more spread all over Lyramion)
one of the stats of your whole party is raised!
Thus,  it  would  be  a shame to use coins for yourself only.  Keep them in
reserve until your party is complete.
The well in Spannenberg raises the party's strength.

At  times  you'll  find  a  woman  dressed  in a red cloak in the garden or
around.   She  offers  you to sell you a stone called "Monster Eye" for the
modest sum of 5,000 gold coins.  Buy this, when you can afford to do so and
use  it.   The  Monster  Eye  indicates  the  presence  of monsters in your
vicinity.
Also  Otram, a young adventurer may be found here, preparing for a journey.
Inquire him about "JOURNEY", "BROTHERHOOD", "NEWLAKE" and "TOWN PARK".

Visit  the  palace  of  Baron George.  Talk to Lady Heidi and Baron George.
Ask  him  about  his  "PROBLEMS",  with  "ORKS"  and  the  "BANDITS" of the
"SILVERHAND"  gang.  He offers a reward if you bring evidence of successful
actions in these issues.
There  is  a  housekeeping  woman  that  hints  you to ask Lady Heidi about
"FAIRIES".   Do so and she tells you about her encounter of the third kind.
Her  story  sounds so strange and unbelievable she's not sure by herself it
has not been a dream only.

Go  to  the  far  northeast  of  the  town  and visit the house of Wat, the
fisherman.   Talk  to  him  to  find  out  about his sick "DAUGHTER" and an
"ANTIDOTE" to cure here.

Across  the  street  you'll find the home of Canth and her husband Norlael.
Talk  to Canth to find out why there is some discordance in the house.  Ask
Norlael of the "WINE GOBLETS" - another one of the many sub-quests found in
Ambermoon.   There  seems  to be some dispute between Canth and Norlael who
stole  the first of the goblets.  Of course, Canth only had a daydream when
she  saw  some green-skinned fairy take it and fly with it away.  Or is she
right?

At  the  Healer's Place talk to everyone you see.  Do not enter the cellar,
there  is  nothing  to  be  done for now.  Talk to Clementine, and find out
about "SANDRA" and her "DAUGHTER" "SABINE".
Find  the  head of the house, Sandra.  Ask her of her "DAUGHTER".  She will
give  you  a  key  to  a  chest in her room and ask you to find out why her
daughter  Sabine  -  she  is working as a healer  in  the city of Burnville 
Lady  Sandra  is one of the many crosslinks to other games.  She's been the
little girl playing in the streets of Twinlake, seventy years ago when your
grandpa  dealt  with  the Amberstar.  Her "TOMCAT" was kidnapped by an evil
rat  king  and  ol'  gramps saved the cat.  The cat's name was "FELIX", you
have  no  possibility  to find that out from the Ambermoon game.  In return
for the name Sandra has a nice reward:  she bestows you with the ability to
talk to animals!  There will be good use of this later in the game.
Enter  her  room to the north-east of the building and open the chest using
the key.  It contains a Holy Horn, a staff of Gala, 5 healing potions II, 3
healing  potions  IV,  the Burnville key and a small fortune in gold.  Feel
free  to  help  yourself.   This chest also is a safe place to store excess
money, food and items while you're in Spannenberg or around.
Near  the  entrance of the building you'll find a bookshelf.  Search it and
find  a  scroll with a story.  Read it and memorize the trick the bird used
to raise a water level.

To  the  south  of  the  city,  near to the city entrance you can find "The
Limping  Rogue" inn.  Talk to everyone you meet here.  Also note the stairs
behind  the  table.  Find Aman the thief and ask him about "THIEVES GUILD",
"THING"  and  "BANDITS".  He tells you about the underworld war between the
local thieves guild and a gang of bandits coming from the Hoimon Desert.
Also,  he  asks  you  for  bringing him an item (a brooch) from Gordon, the
gardener  of  the  cemetery in the north-west corner of the city.  Find old
Landis in the inn and listen what he's got to say.

Do  not  enter  the cemetery before you reached experience level 5!  Undead
monsters  (skeletons,  zombies)  have  risen from their graves.  Of course,
there's  some unholy magic going on!  Gordon, the gardener of the graveyard
has started an interesting new hobby - necromancy.  This term describes the
arcane  art of calling the dead corpses of humans back into a half-life.  A
strong will may take over the emptiness in the heads of the soulless bodies
and turn them into fierce fighting machines.
Before you take him out you might want to spend some nights on the place to
use  the  occasion  for  your  own hobby:  turning undead corpses back into
completely  dead  corpses.  This should boost your experience level quickly
and  as  a  further  reward  you  may  collect  their considerably valuable
equipment as booty.  Once you killed the necromancer the fun is over...
Note,  there  is  a  freshly dug, unused  grave in  the north-west corner of
the cemetery.

Be  prepared  for  a  tough  fight  -  the  necromancer  is dangerous.  You
encounter  Gordon  if you go through the hedge hole in the graveyard.  As a
hint  for  the  fight:   have  the  Holy  Horn  from Sandra's chest in your
backpack.   Use  it  in  the  fight  to finish off the necromancer's undead
company quickly.  Close in on him as fast as possible and kill him while he
still  fires  magical  missiles on you.  Once he's done with his puny magic
he'll  start  using  a  bow  and magical arrows.  On occasion, he deals out
"critical" hits that instantly kill a party member.
Collect  everything  he  carried,  especially  the  Necromancer's Brooch, a
clock, a red mushroom and a Necromancer's Dagger.

Bring  the  brooch  to  Aman in the "Limping Rogue" and give it to him.  In
return you'll receive a password to be used in the thieves' hideout. 

Go  through  the  cellar  of  the  "Limping Rogue".  Be sure of having some
torches  ready.   Explore the dungeon and find the stone head that asks for
the password.  There are no real dangers in the hideout, only groups of big
spiders  now  and  then  that  are  handled with ease.  To the south of the
dungeon 10 bottles of liquor can be found that may be of help if your party
gets exhausted.
Give  the password "SILK" to the head and enter the thieves guild.  Explore
it  but do not try to pass the door labelled "test of thieves".  You do not
have a thief with you yet that may profit from the solution of the test.

Silk  was  the name of a thief in the party of your grandfather.  Obviously
he started a successful career after the Amberstar adventure.

Fans  of  epic fantasy literature may remember this name and probably noted
by  themselves  that Ambermoon contains a lot of references to the books of
David  Eddings.   Have  a look at his "Belgariad" saga and you'll recognize
many of the characters and names from this ten book epos.

The  thieves guild consist of three places where you may train lockpicking,
finding  and  disarming  traps.   A shop sells some nice items.  Especially
note  the  compass,  when used it provides you with a permanent view of the
direction  you're  heading.   Buy and use it as soon as you can afford.  In
the map view the blue peg that marks your position gets an arrow added that
hints on your direction of view, too.

Roam  the city until you have all the special items mentioned (Monster Eye,
clock,  compass) and own the finest armour and weaponry available.  Be sure
to  have  a spare weapon in your backpack.  Buy horses, about 10 lockpicks,
two  lanterns.   Have  some  healing  potions  in  stock.   Remove anything
unnecessary from your backpack and put it into some chest.  This especially
applies  to  gold  -  you do not need it for some time - and rations.  Five
rations per character are enough.
Make  sure  you're  completely rested and well-trained in the martial arts.
Leave  the  city, mount your horses and save the game.  You'll now going to
free Spannenberg from a menace by...


5. Looting the Silverhand Gang

The  hideout  of the bandit  hordes in Spannenberg is located in the centre
of  the  Hoimon Desert, as you already found out.  Unfortunately the desert
is  inhabited by Desert Lizards.  Travelling the area is hazardous but that
can't be helped.

From  the  bridge you crossed to reach Spannenberg ride north to the border
of the desert. Head in north-north-east direction from there until you find
a  crude stone wall that encloses a building.  The entrance is to the south
of the building.  What's that?  A tripwire!  The bandits get a warning when
you enter the house.

Four  groups  of  three  bandits  await you when you go north.  Kill them -
should be simple after you plastered the roads of Spannenberg with the guts
of  their comrades.  In a room near a stair you'll find a chest that may be
opened  with  a  lockpick.  It contains a golden horseshoe, a Sun Helmet, a
potion  of  constitution, a healing potion III and 350 coins of gold.  Take
out  the  helmet  only and wear it.  It's a better protection than your hat
and  may  be used a few times to provide you with light.  Leave the rest of
the  items  in  the  chest  and  put  in any booty from your fight you just
finished.   You'll need the spare place in your backpack to carry away more
treasure later.

Climb  the  stairs and surprise some more bandits (three groups of one, two
and  three).   The  fireplace  in  the first floor hides a secret treasure:
a  target  bow,  another golden horseshoe, a potion of constitution and 500
coins of gold.  Leave everything in.  To the southwest of the room there is
a  chest.   Open  it  using  a  lockpick  and find 5 lockpicks, a potion of
dexterity,  a sword called "Firebrand", the third golden horseshoe and 1000
coins.

Let your character drink the dexterity potion.  Give the Firebrand to Egil.
This  is a very powerful weapon.  You may not use a shield at the same time
because  it's  a  two-handed  sword  but Egil gains some more strength when
wielding  it.  Besides of the ordinary attacking function you can "use" the
sword  during  a  fight  and  evoke a deadly fireball that is hurled onto a
selected foe.  Use this feature with avarice, it works only a few times.
The  fights  in  the  hideout quite often involve bandit chieftains.  These
guys  attack  from  a distance using bows and are able to deal out critical
hits.  It is vital for your survival to reserve the few fire balls you have
for  these  opponents.   With this hint as a guideline it's easy to win the
next fights.
Return  to  the entry hall of the house and save your game.  Have a look at
the  chimney  in  this  room.  Entering it you'll find a secret switch that
opens  a  passage  north.   Go north and get attacked by a group of several
bandits  and one chieftain.  Use the firebrand on the chieftain in the very
first  fighting  round,  do not hesitate.  Kill the rest of the bandits the
ordinary  way.
As a special item after the fight you will find a piece of paper written in
rune letters.  Get the rune sheet from your package and decipher it.

At the end of the passage walk a staircase down.


6. The Bandit's Headquarter

North  of  the  stairs you'll find a row of three small areas where the air
seems  to  glitter.  The hint on the paper suggests you enter the left one.
You  will  get  magically transported in a room to the north that has three
similar teleports.  This time the one to the right is correct.  Another row
of  teleporters,  enter  the  middle  one.   Repeat  a  last time using the
rightmost teleporter.
In  case  you  enter  a wrong teleporter you'll end up in a trap where some
beasts attack you.  Should you survive, search for wall switches similar to
the  switch  you  already encountered in the wine cellar.  They will open a
passage to freedom - or set free more monsters.

If all went well, you're now in the headquarters of the bandits.  Hunt down
any  group  of  bandits  you  encounter.  To the far northeast you may find
another teleporter that can transport you back to the entrance.

On  occasion  you'll  encounter  locked  chests and doors.  Open them using
lockpicks  and  take anything you like.  There is a chest in the north-west
of  the dungeon that holds clothing, armour and some weaponry.  Very useful
are  the  small  tower shield, the horn helmet and that terrific chain mail
armour that contrasts the red blood dripping from your sword so nicely.
Another  chest  in  the  centre of the dungeon holds some potions.  There's
more gold than you are able to carry.

After  some  exploration  of  the  cellar  you'll meet Nagier, the bandit's
chief. Surprisingly, he's not some brute but an honourable elderly man that
offers you two options:  fight him and expect tough resistance or negotiate
to a peace treaty.
Be wise and accept the treaty.  Talk to him and receive a letter and a key.
He  promises  to  avoid  Spannenberg  now and also invites you to visit the
bandit's  arms  master.   There  you  can  train  the art of critical hits,
provided you have the potential to learn this ability.  You and Egil cannot
learn  critical  hits  but  in  the future more party members may join that
profit from this training.
Of  course,  you also may decide to fight the shit out of Nagier and attack
him.   Note  however,  the  guy did not lie to you and you await some tough
minutes.
If  you  win  the  fight you find the hand prosthesis made of silver Nagier
owned.

There  is a small difference between v1.05 and v1.07 of Ambermoon here.  If
you  decide  to accept the treaty, remaining bandits vanish from the cellar
in v1.07.  You may hunt down the rest in v1.05.

Find  the switch in Nagier's bedroom to open a short cut passage out of the
hideout.   You'll  have to press another switch outside the bedroom.  Also,
open  the chest in his bedroom and take out everything.  It's not necessary
to  bring back all items you find in the hideout at once, but make sure you
have the letter/prosthesis, the wine goblet and all four horseshoes in your
backpack.

Travel  back  to  Spannenberg.
Return  the  wine  goblet  to  the  couple in town hall II.  Give it to the
woman.   You'll  receive a brooch that when worn boosts your charisma.  The
result is raised profit when selling items to the shops.
The  hand/letter  is  evidence of your success to Baron George.  Give it to
him  and  receive  treasure chest key I.  It opens one of the chests in his
throne room and makes a second holy horn available to you.
Bring  the  set  of  golden horseshoes to Tolimar, the horse dealer.  He'll
exchange them for a crowbar, a pickaxe and a shovel, not without pooping on
you  for  being  silly  enough to  exchange iron for gold.  Remember what I
told  you  regarding  him  when  you  met  him first?  Did you prepare that
special  place?   Now  put  him there and always remember what pile of shit
this Tolimar guy is.  (The text in German is several degrees more rude than
in the English version.)

Probably,  you  gained  enough  experience  to  train  some  more attacking
ability.   Do  so  now.  Sell everything you don't need from your backpack.
Store  gold  and excess food.  Return to the hideout and completely plunder
it.   You  may  have to repeat this journey several times until you grabbed
everything of value.
Consider  to  cover  your  Amiga keyboard with a towel while collecting the
riches - you are drooling.


7. Grandfather Dies

Now  return to your home and find the cave-in in below the cellar.  Use the
pickaxe  to  remove  the rubble.  Some scream from above alarms you and you
should immediately return to your grandfather's bedroom.

A  healer  that  introduces  himself  as "Father Anthony", informs you your
grandfather  has died  while you enjoyed  playing carefree around somewhere
else.  He advises you to at least visit his grave in Spannenberg.  Also, he
has put a key on the table of your own room.  Then he leaves.
What  does  he  expect of you?  Grandpa - the old fart simply died, leaving
you  alone, no hint how to survive in this crude and cold world and without
a  word  of  good-bye!  Grumbling, you decide to decide to get the key from
your room and open the locked cupboard in ol' shit heads bedroom.  You find
an iron ring and a document inside - your grandfathers last will.  It makes
the  house  and  everything  inside  your  own.  That beloved old man!  You
always honoured  and  respected him and your constantly pure mind and heart
finally  is  rewarded.   You  actually manage to shed some tears and nearly
overlook the last passage of the scroll.
Go  to  the  dining room and stand in front of the left fireplace.  Use the
bucket  to  the  left of the chimney (you have to click the "hand" gadget).
The  fire  in  the chimney is now extinguished and you may go in and find a
secret  room.   You'll  find  some  empty  chests inside that are useful as
additional  storage  room.  In a locked chest you find the Wand of Netsrak.
It  casts  a magic compass when used.  See the cheats section at the end of
the walkthrough for it's secret power.

The  iron  ring  creates  a magical aura around you when worn that prevents
some  monsters  from  successfully  attacking you.  You'll receive messages
"monster cannot penetrate the magical aura" during fights.

Return to Spannenberg, visit the cemetery. It's the grave in the north-west
corner.   The  dead  soul of grandfather has some last information for you.
Now  go  to  the  healer's house.  In the chapel Father Anthony awaits you.
Ask  him  about  an  "ANTIDOTE"  for the sickness of the fisherman's little
daughter.
Also  note,  the  healer's  shop  in the south-east corner of the chapel is
opened  now  that  Father  Anthony  is  back.   It  can  heal any condition
including the death of some party members.


8. Introducing: Nelvin, Black Magician

It's  time  to  expand  your  party  now.  Mount your horses and travel the
Hoimon  Desert,  this  time  in  NNW direction.  You'll enter a forest that
makes  travelling  somewhat  difficult.   Work your way to the far west and
search  the  Alchemist's  Tower  in  the  woods  near the west coast of the
island.
In  the  ground  floor  you'll  find  a stone head that grants passage when
giving  him  the  password  "ANTHONY"
Work  your  way  up  to  the  second floor and meet Alkem, the owner of the
tower.  Talk to him and find out about his lost ring.  He'll give you a key
to the crypt where he lost it.
A  guest room is inhabited by Nelvin, a black magician.  Interview him, too
and ask him about "MAGIC" and "SPHERE OF OPENING".  Invite him to join your
party  and  arrange  fighting ranks to put him in the second row behind you
and  Egil.   He's  not  good  at  fighting  with  weapons  but his powerful
destructive  magic  will be a *big* help in the future.  He needs some more
experience, though, and learn more spells.
In  addition,  he  is  talented  to  speak  the  tongues of a lot of races,
humans,   dwarfs,  gnomes  and  elves.  If you have him talk to Lady Sandra
repeating "FELIX", animal language is added.
His  teacher  was  Trasric the Dark, a companion of your grandfather during
the Amberstar quest.

Leave  the  tower  and  travel back.  Find the Necromancer's Dagger in your
stores and let Nelvin wield it.  It'll make it easier to learn spells.


9. Bug Hunting in the Old Cave

Do  you  remember  why you had to go to the wine cellar in the first place?
There  is  some old equipment of your grandfather hidden there that may aid
in your quest.
We'll  now  enter the old cave below your house to actually find it.  Also,
you  may  already  have  noticed the arachnid population of your cellar and
it's about time to completely wipe out this creep.

Go  to  the  opening  you  created  when  removing the cave-in.  A somewhat
twisted  cave awaits you, inhabited by big spiders, some poison spiders and
cave lizards.  There should be no problem defeating them.
The  map  shows  some  skull  signs  suggesting traps.  They refer to green
puddles  on  the  floor.  You may ignore these without harm as long as your
heroes wear shoes or boots.

Find  four  ladders  leading  down  to  sections of a second, deeper floor.
Search  the  four levers that open a closed door in the maze above.  In the
NW  section there is an illusionary wall behind a spider's web that hides a
crate with some treasury.

Pass  the  now open door in the central section of the upper floor.  Follow
the  twisted  but  basically  unbranched  passage  and  pull all levers you
encounter.
Finally you meet the reason for the alarming messages you got before.
It's an ancient giant spider called "Gigantula".  She's not that dangerous,
to  be  honest.  Using some magic - maybe you have a fireball left from the
firebrand sword - or some destructive spells casted by Nelvin she is killed
quickly.
The  accompanying  big  spiders  and  poison  spiders  should be no problem
anyway.

Around  a  corner you find a half-destroyed crate.  Remove the rubble using
the  pickaxe.   Open  it  with  a lockpick and  look at its contents.  Many
items  are  broken, but you should take them with you anyway.  They may get
repaired later in the game.

Take  with  you  the  Quartz  Crystal,  the broken Crystal Ball, the broken
Locator  Device,  the  broken  Magical  Disk, the Mother-o-Pearl Chain, the
Windpearl and  the  various  magic  scrolls.   The  plate  armour  is  good
protection  for  Egil,  but  it's heavy.  Decide for yourself if you prefer
greater  safety  during  fights or to be able to carry more gold and items.
The same applies to the steel helmet.

Return to the ground floor of your house and save the game.


10. The Sylph Cave

You  should  have  a black scroll "Lame" in your store.  Give it to Nelvin,
make  sure he is wielding the necromancer's dagger.  Enter the resting menu
and click on the "learn scrolls" icon.
Let  him  learn  this spell.  If he fails, the scroll is destroyed and lost
forever.   Restore  your saved game and retry until you are successful.  It
is vitally important Nelvin knows this spell.

Have  your  party  completely  rested  and ride west.  Pass Spannenberg and
continue to travel west.   After some farmland you can see a volcano.  Ride
closer  and  get  ambushed by some Orcs.
Orcs  and  even  more  their captains are tough opponents that handle axes,
slings  and  bows with great skill and have two attacks per fighting round.
They protect their bodies with strong leather armour and it takes many hits
to kill them.  Fortunately, they are very susceptible to lulling and laming
spells.
Cast  a lame spell on the captain in the first round of the fight.  Once an
Orc is lamed, he is unable to overcome the spell for the rest of the fight.
He  cannot  cast  magical  spells  and  is  therefore  absolutely helpless.
Continue  the  laming spells until all foes are banned motionless.  Now you
can take your time to kill them without any further risk.

Continue  west and encounter the entrance to a cave.  There's a tree - have
a  look at it and find a strange triangular stone.  It seems Lady Heidi was
not dreaming at all when she followed the green fairies to the cave.

Make  sure  Nelvin  is  fully  rested  before  you  continue.   If he's too
exhausted  to  cast  laming spells the Orcs are too dangerous.  Explore the
dungeon.   There  is  nothing  of  interest  let aside some more Orcs and a
locked  door  in  the far north of the cave.  Search the door and unlock it
using the triangular stone as a key.
You  found  a  secret  place  of  the  sylph  people!  They are fairy-like,
green-skinned  women  that may change to parallel universes by the magic of
their  wings.  They are extremely shy, so it's no wonder they flee in panic
when you enter the place.  Only a single member of their community seems to
be  more  valiant and dares to stay.  Talk to Sariel and find out all about
her  "SISTER"  that was kidnapped by Orcs and the "SYLPH" people.  She asks
you  to  free  her sister and gives you the password "OKNARD" for the Orc's
home  cave.   Also,  she  bestows  on  you  the  ability  to talk the Sylph
language.  Then she vanishes.

You'll  find  a crate here that holds a Chain of Office, the second missing
gold goblet, a set of silver cutlery, wishing coins and a wind pearl.

Return the  chain to Baron George, it's his, and receive another wind pearl
in  return.   Give  the  goblet to Norlael in town hall II.  He rewards you
with some gold.


11. Rog, the Hill Giant

Travel  west  again  up   to  the  volcano  mountains.   Follow the eastern
mountain side to the north and find the double entrance to the Orc's cave.

It  does  not  matter which of the entrances you take.  Explore the dungeon
and  fight  the  Orcs  you  meet  -  use the laming spell to overcome them.
Always  rest  after  a  fight  to  regain spell points.  If you cannot rest
because  the  required  eight  hours did not pass, simply use the sandglass
gadget to skip the remaining time.

There  are  brass  gongs  spread  all over the dungeon.  Hit them to remove
obtrusive  walls  and  get  attacked by some Orcs.  The stone head near the
entrance expects the word "OKNARD" to grant passage.

Stay  away from the central room until you completely investigated the rest
of  the  dungeon.   There is a cell block to the west with a locked door to
the middle cell.  You cannot enter here without a special key.

Prepare  for  a difficult fight and save your game.  Enter the central room
and  meet  Rog,  a  hill giant that lords over the Orcs.  You have to fight
him,  an  Orc  captain and two Orc soldiers at the same time.  Cast a sleep
spell on  Rog and avoid further aggression against him for a moment.  While
he  is  sleeping  he will not attack you and also is unable to cast spells.
If  you attack him he will awaken and plaster you with destructive magic or
crushing club hits.
While  he takes his little nap, finish off his Orc lackeys using the laming
spell  tactics.   Now  close  in  on  him,  wait with attacks until you are
successful  with a laming spell put on him.  His magic is bad enough so you
don't  want his brutish force as an additional danger.  Kill him using your
conventional  weaponry, cast winddevil spells if you have some spell points
left.  He'll attack you with some really forceful spells, so keep an eye on
your health and use healing potions if necessary.

Collect  his  head and the prison key.  There is a crate in this room, open
it  using  a lockpick.  The mage robe is a fine item for Nelvin.  It raises
maximum  spell  points  and  maximum hit points when worn and also protects
well against weapon attacks.
The  throwing sickle is a far-distance weapon that befits a mage.  It keeps
him  out of melee range and does not take ammunition.  The sickle magically
returns to the thrower after each use.
Get the wind pearl and walk to the locked cell door.

Open  the  door  using the prison key and find Selena, the kidnapped Sylph.
She  was  badly  tortured  by  the Orcs.  In particular they ripped off her
wings  and crippled this way she is unable to return to her people.  Invite
her  to  your party.
She is quite weak but fast as lightning and becomes a brilliant thief later
in  the  game.  Also, she can be trained to deal out critical hits.  Due to
her fairy-like heritage she's moderately resistant to evil magic.
She  cannot  weave  spells  like a magician does, but is able to read magic
scrolls.   It's  a  good  idea  to  let  her use potions, scrolls and other
magical  items  during  combat  to  keep the hands of her comrades free for
other things.
For now, put her in a safe position in the back row of your party.

You  need  light  but  high-quality equipment for her to make her optimally
efficient.  Thus, we return to Spannenberg to stand...


12. The Test Of Thieves

Go  to the thieves' guild in the cellar of the "Limping Rogue" and find the
locked door you did not open yet.  Now invest a lockpick and enter the test
area.

You  are  in  a corridor crossing with one door to the north and one to the
south.   Pick the lock of the southern door and follow the circular passage
to  the  NW  corner of the dungeon.  There is a door to the central section
leading  south.   Pick the lock and go in.
You  can  avoid  the  ambush  on your way south by extinguishing your light
first.   But why should you?  You always have use for some extra experience
points.
At the end of the passage you find a chest.  It's locked, of course, and as
easily  opened  by  a lockpick as the doors before.  You find a key inside.
Take  it  back  to the entry corridor of the test area and use it to unlock
the northern door.  Behind, there is a lever that opens a passage east when
pulled.

Follow  the  corridor  to the east and find some slingstones.  To the north
there  is  a room with a well in the centre.  Floating down in the well you
can  see  a wooden chest that holds another key.  Unfortunately it's out of
reach.
Do  you  remember  the  bird  story  from  the healer's bookshelf?  Use the
slingtones  while  standing in front of the well.  Most probably you do not
have  enough  slingstones in your backpack to raise the water level enough.
Visit  the  Spannenberg  town  merchant  and make sure you own at least 150
slingstones  in total.  It's not necessary to have a single character carry
them all, it's the sum that counts.
Go  back to the well and have one character use his slingstones.  The chest
will  swim  up and you have another key now.  There is a single locked door
left to the west in the test area now.  The key fits to this door.  Fight a
final easy fight and get your reward.

It's  some  equipment  especially fitted for a thief.  Make Selena wear the
shadow  belt,  cloaking cap and the swift shoes and her thievery abilities,
speed,  armour  protection  level  and  dexterity  get boosted nicely.  The
murder  blade  is  also  made  for her, but a short bow and magic arrows is
better  suited for now.  Leave the blade available in her backpack, though,
and ready it before you plan to search for traps on chests or pick locks.

If  you  have  not  already done so, introduce her to the attack trainer in
Spannenberg  and  train  her fully.  Spend her remaining training points in
equal  parts on trap discovery, trap disarming and lockpicking.  Make sure,
though, she keeps 2 training points left.


13. Dead Men Walking

Get  the  magical  horns  you collected up to now, there should be three in
total.  Also make sure you have the crypt key ready you got from Alkem, the
owner of the Alchemist's Tower.

Visit  the  arm's  master  in the bandit's hideout and let Selena train her
critical  hit  ability.   Two percent probability do not sound much but now
and  then some really malicious foe is taken out by her with a single blow.
You'll  start  appreciating  this when you encounter your first magic-proof
opponents.

From  the  hideout,  ride north-west to the Alchemist's Tower.  A little to
the  east  of  the tower there is the entrance to the crypt.  Use the crypt
key to open the entrance.

The  crypt is inhabited by several types of undead monsters.  Skeletons and
Zombies are well-known playmates of your cemetery diversions.
Ghouls and Banshees are new sparring partners to be encountered here.  Both
of  them  may  cast  evil  spells on your party so it's probably easiest to
handle  them  using  the  holy horns.  The horns never failed me and always
instantly banned the undead punk I aimed at.

Action  starts  in  an  entry  hall.  In the centre you can see a statue of
Bala,  Goddess of Death.  There are doors to the west and to the east.  The
exit  door is to the south.  Enter the rooms behind the doors and find rows
of  crosses.   In  both  rooms  there  is one cross that stands up from the
ground  at  an  odd  angle.   Touch these crosses to straighten them into a
vertical position and a fourth door appears to the north of the entry hall.

Continue to the north and enter a small room with doors north and south and
a  spinner trap hidden in the centre.  You will encounter these essentially
harmless  traps  more often later.  They consist of a rotatable floor plate
that  turn  you  into another direction when you tread on them.  Watch your
compass closely and correct your direction of view when necessary.

Go  north  again into am equally sized room, doors north and south and wall
switches at the walls to the east and the west.  Activate both switches and
return south to the spinner room.
New  doors  appeared  here  to  the east and to the west.  Enter both rooms
behind  these  new  doors  and  find  two  coffins  and  two  rows of three
gravestones in each room.
One of the coffins is empty, the other one pops a ghoul when touched.
The centre gravestone in each row must be touched to make doors appear in a
place to the north we did not visit yet.
Both  rooms  have  illusionary  walls  to  the north that hide chests.  Use
lockpicks  to  open  them  if  you  have  some  left  or  try  out Selena's
professional  abilities  as  a  thief.   Both chests are protected by nasty
little  mechanisms  so  be  sure to find and disarm the traps before Selena
picks the locks.
The  contain  some potions, magic scrolls, another holy horn and a staff of
Gala.

Return  to  the spinner room, go on to the buttons room and continue north.
The  central room here has doors to the west, the east and two doors to the
south,  not  counting  the exit.  There are spinner trapes in the middle of
the  room.   Enter  each room behind and find a switch of the already known
cross type behind each.  Straighten each cross and open four doors in total
to the north of the central room.
The  rightmost  and leftmost doors lead to coffins with buttons on the lid.
When pressed, ghouls are released.  The two middle doors are interconnected
by  the  passage  behind  so it does not matter which one you take.  You'll
encounter  banshees  here  for the first time, and they are a pest to begin
with.   They  cast all kinds of evil magic and the easiest way to deal with
them is by using the holy horns.
On the other hand you probably have noticed that when you use the horns all
equipment  and gold that was carried by the undead monsters is banned along
with  them.   Banshees have banded mail armours that are heavy (5 kilogram)
but  are  a  better protection for your fighters than the chain mail shirts
you  probably wear now.  Decide for yourself whether you want to fight them
by sword and gain the armoury or by sorcery and have an easy time of it.
You may have to take a break in exploring the crypt and make a visit at the
Spannenberg  healer's  shop  to have any healed bad conditions, for example
lameness, that was inflicted by the banshees.
To  the  far  north there are two switches that activate two teleporters in
the central room.

Enter  one of the teleporters and get transported to a corridor.  Follow it
and  find  a  wall  switch you should press.  Return to the central room by
another  teleporter at the end of the corridor.  For completeness' sake you
may want to use the other teleporter in the central room, too.

From  the  central room go through one of the middle doors to the north and
find a door to the far north of the passage behind.
You'll see a large coffin and in one corner of the room, buried in the dust
you'll find the ring of Alkem.  As soon as you pick up the ring, the coffin
opens and the lich lord that lives in this crypt blocks your retreat.
Strictly  speaking,  you  cannot  say  he "lives" here, because he actually
happens  to  be as dead as his minions you already encountered.  But due to
the  fact  there  is  no  continuous  verb form that sufficiently describes
"being  dead all the time and not beeing too happy about it" let's stick to
the somewhat inexact phrase he lives here.

Most  dead people prefer spending their afterlife in some more or less nice
place  according  to  their  religious  believes, be it Valhalla, Paradise,
Nirvana,  Hell  or  whatever they call it.  This guy likes a dark and dusty
crypt and this choice sheds a suspicious making light on the probable state
of his mind.
Nevertheless,   he's  quite  a  mighty  wizard,  he  does  not  like  noisy
adventurer  groups  that  dump wrappings of their food rations all over the
crypt  while scaring his undead servants to death (he, he...  ) and most of
all  he  hates  getting  disturbed when taking a nap for a year or two.
To make a long story short, he's pissed.

Before making the first move in the fight, find the ring you just picked up
in  your inventory and make Nelvin stick it on a finger.  It will boost his
magic  abilities.   Take  care  of  the  lich lord's company using the holy
horns, be sure to kill the banshee in the first fighting round.
Close  in  on  him  and  fight  with  all  you have, including magic spells
(winddevil).   Don't waste dispel undead magic  from the holy horns on him,
he's immune to this spell.

The  remains  of  the  lich lord include a mage robe, a throwing sickle and
most  important  the  liche crown.  Give it to Nelvin and make him wear it.
It  boosts  the success probability when reading/learning magic scrolls and
whenever  you  plan  to  learn new spells you should make the corresponding
character wearing the crown first.  Moreover it offers good protection.

Leave the crypt and go to Alkem in the Alchemist's tower to the west of the
crypt.   Return  him  his  ring.   He will give your party members training
points  as  a  reward  and  also opens his two shops in the basement of the
tower.


14. The Temple of Life

From  Alkem's  potion shop do not forget to buy an empty flask.  We'll need
it very soon.

We  now  face the final and hardest test on the starting island, the temple
of  Gala,  goddess of life.  You find the temple near the east coast of the
island  in  the  mountains  enclosing  the  Hoimon  desert.   Be sure of an
appropriate  supply of food, you'll probably have to rest and recover often
after the fights to come.

Your  job is to gain access to the fountain of life and fill an empty flask
with  it's  waters.   Sounds  simple enough, but the temple is stuffed with
traps to make sure only really worthy heroes get the holy liquid.
It  is  protected  by  an army of guardians in the form of living stone and
granite  golems.   They  have crushing strength, some magic ability and are
quite resistant to weapon attacks.
Maybe  it's  an  accepted  part  of  Lyramion's religion that if you're not
worthy  enough  to visit the temple of life (!) you might as well get shred
into many very small pieces.

The  key  you  got  from  Father Anthony opens the door to the temple.  You
start  in the entry hall of the temple, a statue of Gala can be seen in the
centre.   It's  surrounded  by some unlit candles.  To the east pass a door
and find a set of steel and flintstone on a table.
Around a corner you discover a strange pulsating light floating in the air.
The  leader  of  your  party  may  touch  the  light  and  his stamina gets
increased.

Return to the entry hall.  There seems to be no further door, only the exit
and the door to the east you just tried out.
North of the statue there is a crystal ball that shows the saying "There Is
Always A Way", in rune letters, of course.
Have a look at the north wall.  There are two illusionary walls.  The right
ones  has  another  pulsating  light  behind  it,  this  time  strength  is
increased.
The  left  hides  another  crystal  ball  (maybe  a  predecessor  of  ASCII
terminals?)  that  reads "Gala Must Stand A Bright Glow". The candles  must 
be lit. Use the steel & flintstone set on each of them.

When all four candles are lit, a passage to the north opens.

Go  north  up to a crossing.  A spinner trap will turn you around.  Correct
your  heading  and continue north.  There are illusionary walls to the east
and  the  west  in  the  short  corridor you enter now.  Pass them and find
pulsating lights that rise dexterity (west) and speed (east) when touched.

Continuing  north  you  find  a room with a grid like ornament at the north
wall.   Have  a  look at it and you'll notice a socket where a small object
may get placed.

Return  to  the spinner trap and go east.  Two stone golems will attack you
if you try to pass between them.  This is a tough fight.  Be ready to spend
some healing and spell point potions to overcome the golems.
Continue east, then north. Another pulsating light grants a charisma boost.
Rest  now  and  go  south.   Approach  the granite golem you see now and he
attacks.  Kill him and you find a Gala Stone.

Put  the  Gala  stone into socket of the ornament and the wall will vanish.
Another wall with the same kind of lock blocks the way.

Return to the spinner and handle a similar situation to the west.  The only
difference here is the pulsating light that boosts intelligence instead.

Open  the second ornamented wall and follow the corridor to the north up to
a  bend  east.   There  is  an illusionary wall in the south wall after the
bend,  you'll  find  a  pulsating  light  that increases resistance against
magic.   Let  Selena  touch  this,  she is the only one to profit from this
light.

The corridor leads to a crossing.  Take the way south and enter a room with
a  crystal  ball  in  the  middle and two teleports, one east and one west.
Looking at the crystal ball gives the text "You have to decide".

Use  the  west  teleporter  to  a chest containing magic scrolls.  The east
teleporter gives you fights with three groups of stone golems in increasing
difficulty.
Save  your  game and let Nelvin learn the spell "Windhowler".  It's similar
to the Winddevil spell you already know but does more damage.  "Irritation"
is  another  important  spell.   If  successful, it prevents a monster from
using magic for the rest of a fight.
Remember to wear the lich crown while learning!

Return  by  teleporter and go to the crossing again.  This time we'll solve
the  east  puzzle.   A crystal ball hints you that not all walls really are
walls and thus, search the northern wall for an illusion.  The next is also
to the north, then west and last south.
You'll  have  to  fight  stone  golems for each secret passage you find but
there is a reward.  A pulsating light grants a boost of luck.

Return to the crossing and head north.  Save your game before you enter the
room  behind  the  door.  You'll encounter many moving teleporters.  Choose
one of the many wrong teleporters and have a fight with some golems or find
the single correct one and be transported to a short but winded passage.
Fortunately,  any transporter  you try will vanish after use, so you have a
reasonable chance to get away without having to stand dozens of fights.

When  you  found  the  passage,  enter  the  teleporter  at it's end and be
transported  to  the  far south west of the temple.  Around a corner you'll
find  stairs  up  leading  to  a small spring.  Jump in for a swim, it will
bring hit and spell points to maximum for all party members.
Use  the  empty flask you bought at Alkem's near the edge of the spring and
it gets filled with the water of life.

Go  back  into  the temple, find the lever that reveals a door to the east.
The door leads to the entry hallway of the temple.

You've  done  it!   Thorough  adventurers  don't  leave  things unfinished,
though.  The fights with the golems give some nice experience and you might
want to find and hunt down all of them if you not already did so.


15. The Antidote

There  is  a second ingredient necessary for the medicine against the swamp
fever.  Mount your horse and make a journey to the far northeast end of the
island.  There is a swamp and far to the east it has a little pond.
Traveling  the  swamp  is dangerous, bubbling gas fountains may poison you.
Fortunately  your  horses  watch  their steps very closely:  as long as you
stay mounted, you are safe from the gas.
Unmount  the  horses  at  the  western shore of the pond, go a step closer.
Swimming  in  the centre you can see the swamp lily, just in reach.  Get as
many as you like and return to Spannenberg.

In  the  healer's place find Father Anthony and give him the flask with the
water  of life.  He'll take a swamp lily, too and prepare the antidote from
the two items.

Bring  the  antidote  to  town hall I, where the fisherman's daughter still
struggles  for her life and use the potion on her.  She awakes and recovers
immediately.

Talk to her and she'll present you a Ring of Sobek as a gift.

Congratulations!   You  just  finished  the  little  introduction  quest of
Ambermoon!  Face it, even if you know the solution of this game by heart it
takes several days to play Ambermoon from start to the very end.



III. Burnville
--------------


1. Killing the party

Don't  mind  if  the  headline  of  this  chapter  puzzles  you  -  this is
intentional :-)

Make  your  own  character wear the ring of Sobek and release Egil from the
party.  Now leave Spannenberg and find the quay just southwest of the town.
Jump  in  the water.  Nelvin and Selena will drown quickly but you yourself
are not harmed.
Your  relative safety results from the ring of Sobek little Sally gave you!
It  makes  a  character  a  perfect swimmer when worn and has further magic
properties we will encounter soon.

Swim to the south until you reach the shores of another island.  Follow the
coastline  to  the  west  until you reach a quay and a raft that awaits you
there.   Mount  the  raft  and  go  back to Spannenberg.  Visit Egil at the
fighting trainer and recruit him again.
You  did  follow  my  advice  to build up some gold tresure in the chest of
Sandra,  the  healer?  If yes, get some gold from your stores and go to the
healer's  shop  in the chapel.  Reviving Nelvine and Selena costs 1000 gold
coins  each,  but  that's nothing compared to the hassle travelling all the
island and two dungeons to recruit them again.

This  is a second option, of course:  release all your party members before
getting  the raft and save 2000 gold, but I don't recommend it.  Nelvin has
his  quarters  in Alkem's tower where you met him first and Selena moves to
the Sylph cave.

You  should  check  your  equipment  now.  Make sure you have three to four
lanterns, about 20 rations of food per character, your remaining potions of
healing  and spell points and about 5000 gold coins.  Several special items
are advisable to have in your backpack:  the sphere of opening, the ring of
Sobek,  the staff of Gala, the Burnville key, the iron & flintstone and the
sun  helmet.   There's  some  broken  stuff  you  got  from  the  chest  in
grandfather's cellar.  Take with you the locator device, the magic disk and
the crystal ball.

You  should have gained several experience levels in the Gala temple and in
the process of saving Sally.  Visit the trainer to put the attack abilities
of  your  party to maximum.  Selena should have enough training points left
to visit the thieves' training in the guild below the Tavern.

Go  to your raft and sail it to the place you found it.  To the east of the
quay there is the entrance to a tunnel.


2. The Burnville Tunnel

Enter  and  find  what  is left of the Orc tribe that besieged Spannenberg.
Obviously,  they fled here and found a new home in the tunnel.  Observe how
easy you can win over them now you're experienced a little more!
Especially  Egil  should  have  reached level 10 by now and thus may attack
twice per combat round.

Clean  out  the  tunnel entrance area and find a locked door.  The Orcs did
not manage to open it but you have the Burnville key to unlock the door.

Follow the tunnel until you encounter a fire giant.

We'll  now  try  out  a new fighting tactics especially suited against slow
monsters  that  are  able  to  use  magic  attacks.   Let  Nelvin  cast the
"Irritate"  spell on the giant.  It will prevent him to use any evil magic.
If you successfully add a "Lame" spell, he's lost.
If  the  irritation  fails several times in a row he will probably hurl all
kinds  of  fire balls on you.  You have to find a means to kill him quickly
in  this  case.  The ring of Sobek is an aid here.  When used in combat, it
evokes  a  "Waterfall"  spell  that  works very nicely against all kinds of
fiery monsters and does a lot of damage.

In  a niche to the west there are some baskets.  Leave everything in except
the  scimitar.   You  probably want Egil wield it, he's the best fighter in
your  ranks.   Give  your  own character the firebrand sword if you did not
break it yet.  Note, you may use a shield together with the scimitar.

Leave  the  tunnel through the south exit.  You're at the north east corner
of  a  desert.  Journey a little to the south.  In the centre of the desert
you find an oasis with the city of Burnville.


3. Burnville I

Burnville  is  surrounded  by water.  Be careful not to fall in!  There are
bridges to the west and to the east of the town you may use.  Find the city
gates to the south and enter.

Burnville  does  not  have  any  inhabitants!  Traces of destruction can be
found  everywhere,  the  city seems to have suffered a big fire.  All shops
are closed.
Find  the  house  of  the  healers  to the north and enter.  Located in the
southwest  corner  of  the  building  there  is  a small living room with a
bookshelf.  Have a look at it and find Sabine's diary and a key.

Read  the  diary  and  learn about the catastrophe that came upon the city.
Sabine,  the  head  of  the town healers and daughter of Lady Sandra is the
only person that escaped slavery and now is trying to free her people.

Find  the  building  that  you  face when you enter the town and go to it's
north  side.   A strange blue light seems to shimmer through a crack in the
wall.   Touch  the  wall  and it vanishes.  You'll see a ladder down to the
underground mage school.
The  keeper of the school does not seem to leave his home very often and he
simply did not notice all the people in the town are gone!

Nevertheless,  train  Nelvin  in  the  ways  of magic.  Using magic is more
important  than  scroll  reading, you have the necromancer's dagger and the
lich  crown  as an aid.  He should have enough training points left to bump
his  "use  magic"  abilities  to  maximum.   Spend the rest for raising his
scroll reading abilities.
Using  magic  is  important also for your own character.  Use his remaining
training points for this feature.

The  scroll  shop  has  some  magic scrolls that are useful to Nelvin.  Buy
"Thunderstorm",  "Earthquake"  and "Earthslide" and make Nelvin learn these
spells.

There  is  a  magic  well  to the north of the Burnville that will rise the
intelligence of all party members when a wishing coin is thrown in.

Leave the town and travel to the south east corner of the desert.


4. The Bollgar Tunnel

You  find  an  entrance to another tunnel.  Enter and explore the area.  In
the  northwest  stir up a fire giant and kill him using the irritate & lame
tactics.   Now  that  Nelvin  is  trained in the arcane arts he hardly ever
blunders  when  weaving  spells.  Monsters still might be lucky and deflect
spells now and then.
The  giant's  lair holds a crossbow, bolts, some potions, wishing coins and
some gold.  I never had much use for the crossbow, your  mileage  may vary.
I recommend take it with you and sell it later.

To  the  west  you will encounter a door.  Use the Bollgar key to unlock it
and continue.  To the northwest there is another heap of treasures:  a wind
pearl, two gems, a steel helm, a plate amour and some gold.
Leave these items, we will take them with us on the way back.

Fight  another fire giant and leave the tunnel through a second exit to the
southwest.


5.  Luminor's Tower

From  the  exit  go  south.   There are a lot of small channels that may be
crossed without harm at narrow places.  If you happen to incur some damage,
simply take a rest before you journey onward.
You will see a hut.  Enter and find an altar.  Use the sphere of opening at
the altar and some obstacles to the north west are removed.

Leave  the hut and head north west until you encounter a large tower.  This
is  the  former  Black  Magician Tower - you probably know it if you played
Amberstar  before.  After the catastrophe that changed the face of Lyramion
there  are no more black magicians left in the tower and it's now inhabited
by the demon that enslaved the Burnville people.

Enter  and  find yourself in an entry hall without further exits.  There is
an  unlit  torch  at the east wall.  Use the steel & flintstone to light it
and a passage north opens.
A  fire dragon awaits you that can be handled with the same irritate & lame
tactics that worked so well against the fire giants.

There  are doors in the south west and south east corners of the room.  Use
the SW door, but take care!  There's a deadly trap around a corner and it's
easy to stumble in.  Hidden behind an illusionary wall to the south you may
find a wall switch that deactivates the trap.
Go down the stairs and enter the torture chamber where the Burnville people
are  imprisoned.   To  the south meet Sabine the healer and invite her into
the party.
You need a special to key open the prison door.

To the south east of the torture chamber there is pool filled with bubbling
lava.   While  in v1.05/Ger you cannot cross it's border, you may enter the
pool  in  v1.07/Eng. You are not harmed by the heat but it definitely looks
strange having your party stand in the molten mass.

Return to the ground floor of the tower and pass through the second door in
the  dragon's  room.   The  same kind of trap lurks in your way, so use the
switch behind the illusionary wall to the south first.

Ascend  to  the  first  floor and follow the corridor up a door.  Save your
game now.
Behind  the door you are ambushed by a fire dragon and a fire giant.  Watch
your  step!   There  are  puddles  of molten lava on the floor that inflict
great damage when touched.
In the centre of the room a huge flame emerges from the ground.  Get closer
carefully  until  you  get  a  message  in rune letters.  The transcription
reads:

                       I AM HIS POWER AND HIS MIGHT.
                   THE HIGHER I BURN THE STRONGER HE IS.
                   HE WILL NEVER DIE AS LONG AS I LIVE.

Don't come closer to the flame or you get incinerated.  From the entry door
head  exactly north.  In a niche at the north wall you'll see an ugly stone
face with an open mouth.

Leave  the  room  and save the game.  Follow the corridor up to a stair up.
The  room  you  enter  now has two statues and doors to all directions.  Go
through the northern door first.
Floating  in the air you can see a strange amulet.  Touch it and a creature
half  feline, half human is ripped from a parallel universe and transported
to  this chamber!  Talk to him and learn his name is Valdyn.  Ask him about
the "AMULET" and the "CURSE" he hoped to remove with it.  Actually he's the
hero   of   the   Thalion   platformer  "Lionheart"!   I  just  love  these
crossovers...
Invite  him  to your party and because he's got nothing better to do anyway
he'll  join  you.   Valdyn is a ranger.  He's a strong and dextrous fighter
but  has  certain  limitations to the armour he can wear.  His equipment he
brings from the parallel universe is quite good for now.  Make him wear his
amulet and arrange fighting position to have him in the front row.

Return  to  the  statues room and go west.  Make Valdyn leader of the party
and  have him touch the pulsating light you see.  It will raise his ability
to use magic.
From  the  statues room now go east.  You find another pulsating light that
increases  the  ability  to  read scrolls.  Continue south and find a third
light.  I never found out what the effect of this one is.

Leave  the  statues  room  to the south and find an illusionary wall to the
west.  It hides a chest that holds a flask of icy cold water.  The chest is
pretty  well protected by booby-traps so use a lockpick or have Selena find
and  disarm  the  traps  before you pick the lock.  Put the flask into your
backpack, we'll need it soon.

Climb up the stairs to the next level and save your game!

There is a door to the north.  Behind you find a room with lava puddles and
flames  moving  erratically  on  the  floor.  Both are deadly when touched!
Still,  you  have to find a way to the north east corner of the room.  This
area  is  extremely  hazardous  and  you probably have to try several times
until  you  reach  the  chest  on the other side.  Open it and find another
flask of ice water.
Save your game to a new slot and work your way back to the door.

To  the  west  there  is  a  spear  trap.  You may disarm it by finding the
illusionary  wall  to the north immediately in front of it and pressing the
button behind.
Another  spear  trap  awaits  you  and again a switch behind an illusionary
wall - located to the east this time - deactivates it.

There  is  another  door  to  the east.  Enter the chamber behind and fight
against  some fire dragons.  Other than stationary lava puddles there is no
further  danger  here.   You  will  find a third chest and another flask of
ice water.

Climb  the  stairs  to  the next level.  Some more fire dragons await their
fate.   In  the west wall, south of the stairs there is another illusionary
wall  that  hides a fourth chest and flask of ice water. There is a door to
the east but do not pass it!  You really don't want to fight the fire demon
Luminor at the peak of his might.

Descend  three  levels  to the room with the huge flame and the stone face.
Stand  in  front of the face and use the four flasks of ice water, one at a
time  and  watch  the flame shrink with each flask you feed the head.  When
all four flasks are used, the flame has reduced its size dramatically.

Climb  up  the  stairs all the way again and pass the one door in the upper
floor  you have not tried out yet.  Follow the corridor to another door and
enter  Luminor's  living  room.  He's a fearsome demon now but that was not
the  case  when your grandfather met him in the Amberstar adventure seventy
years  ago.  If you have Amberstar, too, see if you can find Luminor in the
Black  Mage's  Tower and compare him to the massive form he's in Ambermoon.
Seventy years seem pretty sufficient for a demon to grow up and mature :-)

Fight  him with all you got, maybe the ring of Sobek has some charges left.
He's  immune to irritation, sleep and laming spells, so use Windhowler and,
of course, your swords to kill him.  If you think he's a dangerous opponent
I  now  would  like  to  tell  you  that you may also encounter him without
extinguishing  his  life  flame below first.  You really should try this in
case  you  do  a  second  try at Ambermoon - he'll be eight times stronger.
Each  flask  of ice water  you  find  and  use  cuts down his health by 200
points...
When you kill him, you discover a key to the prison in the cellar.

Around  a  corner  find a button to open you the way out of Luminor's inner
chambers.   Just west of the button is an illusionary wall and a chest.  It
holds  potions  that  rise  a  character's  stats.   Use it in on the party
members  that  profit most of the effects.  In addition you'll find wishing
coins, a target bow, a second ring of Sobek, an anti-magic ring and another
Windpearl.

Go down all the way to the torture chamber and release the Burnville people
from  the  prison  using  the Luminor key.  One of the prisoners is Captain
Torle,  the  owner of the wharf in Spannenberg and he asks you to visit him
when you are back to Spannenberg.


6. Burnville II

Travel  back to Burnville and don't forget to collect the treasury you left
in  Bollgar  tunnel.  The people of Burneville have returned to their homes
and shops are open again.

Go  to  the artist's house and speak to some very interesting people.  Find
Dieter  Rottermund,  the  artist that painted the cover of the game box and
ask him about "ARTIST".  He'll give you a picture he's painted and asks you
to bring it to Baron Karsten of Newlake.
Talk  to  Michael Hellmich, the Thalion co-worker that created the map from
the  Ambermoon  package  and did the manual illustrations.  He will explain
you his "CARTOGRAPHY" and give you a map.  If you use it the game gives you
clearance to use the map that came packaged with the game.  (Did you wonder
why I did not reference it as an aid for orientation on Lyramion yet?  From
now on I'll do :-)
Milzor  will tell you all about "MAGICAL WORDS", like "SCHNISM" and "TEMPUS
FUGIT".  Basically, it's a spoiler for a built-in cheat in Amberstar.
Theresa  is  a jewellery craftsman.  She has the ability to do "REPAIRS" of
jewellery and sells "RINGS" of power in her shop.  The shop indeed has some
powerful  (and  expensive!)  items  in  stock.  Buy what you can afford but
don't forget the Ruby and the Windpearl.

Visit the merchant and have a look at his offers.  Most probably you cannot
afford  to  buy  the  scimitar  he offers for the modest sum of 25,000 gold
coins,  but  I'm  sure your remaining treasure in Spannenberg is sufficient
for  this  item.   We'll  visit  Spannenberg  soon and you may make a short
shopping  trip  to  Burnville before you continue with the next adventures.
Other items of interest here are a Windpearl and an Earthstone.

At the west side of the town a locksmith has a repair shop.  Bring here the
broken  items  of  your grandfather, the locator device, the magic disk and
the  crystal  ball  and have them repaired.  Use the locator device and get
coordinates of your current position added to your display.
The  magic  disk  is a means of transportation, a mixture of horse and raft
and  easily  carried  in  your  backpack.   It's not that important because
you'll soon acquire even better transportation devices.
The  crystal ball is an item you won't want to miss.  It is able to provide
you with a map view of your vicinity.  Unfortunately it has no charges left
currently but this also will change in the near future.

The  tavern  offers  extremely cheap accommodation. Out of gratefulness for
you  saving the Burnville community the tavern keeper charges only a single
gold coin per party member.



IV. Lyramion
------------


1. Spannenberg again

Voyage home to Spannenberg and visit the Wharf.  Captain Torle will present
you  a ship he just built as a gift.  Find Shandra's Amber in your treasury
and have the picture you received from Dieter in your backpack, too.

You  may want to collect some money from your treasure to buy items you saw
in  the Burnville shops and make a shopping trip first.  Don't mind if your
bargain  goes  down  to zero, there will be replacement soon.  Use the ship
you  find  at  the  quay  near Spannenberg for your trip.  It allows you to
travel  rough waters you were not able to cross swimming, using the raft or
the  magical  disk.   You  can sail further to the south much closer to the
city of Burnville and don't need to pass the tunnel again.


2. Newlake

We'll now deliver the picture to Newlake.  Have a look at the map that came
with  Ambermoon  and  sail  to  the  island  west of your home.  Newlake is
located  at  coordinates [348,352], try to sail as close as possible before
you deboard your ship.  Do the rest of the way by feet.

Explore  the  city and find the palace of Baron Karsten to the nort west of
the town.
From  the entry hall go to the far north west corner and pass a door north.
You'll  see  another door shifted a little to the west, also leading north.
You'll  find  Baron  Karsten here or in his sleeping room [19,8] to the far
east of this hallway.  Talk to the Baron and give him the picture.
If  you  ever  thought  of  quitting  your  job as an adventurer and heroic
saviour  of worlds, you might want to consider art business.  Baron Karsten
rewards  you with 12,000 experience points for each party member and 10,000
coins  of  gold.   You  did  not  even  paint  that picture, you just did a
delivery!
In addition he immediately trusts you enough to give you the key to a vault
in  the  north east of the city.  Ask him for "TROUBLE" to learn more about
the brotherhood of Tarbos.
In  a  chest  [17,7] you discover the novel the Baron is writing currently.
Use  it for your amusement (he did not write that much yet) and leave it in
the  chest.

Have a look at the wall at [11,15].  This is the picture you just delivered
and discover it's the Ambermoon box cover painting :-)

Now  explore  the  rest  of  the  palace  and fight the guardian golems you
encounter.  From the entry hall go to the west and behind illusionary walls
at  [3,15]  and [3,16] find two levers that open passages south and east in
the palace.
At  [3,27]  find  a  chest  with  lightning  boots.   They're usable by all
classes,  protect  like  ordinary boots and make the character wearing them
faster a lot.  Another chest at [16,25] holds an anti-magic ring.

Sharp-eyed adventurers may notice a graphics bug in the auto map view:  one
of the walls does not look right.

Leave the palace, and find the library in the eastside of Newlake.  We will
"borrow"  some  of  the scrolls and books.
At  [12,17]  look  east  and search the shelves.  You'll find a nice set of
alchemist's scrolls here.  More scrolls can be found at [5,10] looking west
(mystic) and [5,18] looking east (healer).
The  Paladin  book  at  [12,8]  (south) gives a hint about the last Paladin
Gryban  who  sleeps  in castle Godsbane.  Amberstar veterans might remember
him as a companion of your grandfather.  We'll visit him later.
The shelves at [13,11] (west) hold the Book of Herbs, the Windgate Book and
a  shrine  key.   Read the Windgate Book and you know why you collected all
those  windpearls  and  the  mother-o-pearl  chain.   The Book of Herbs has
information regarding places where to find some rare herbs.

By  now  your  characters  should  have  collected  a lot of spell learning
points.   Leave  the town, save the game and have Sabine learn some spells.
Start  with  Resurrection  and learn any other spell you think useful until
her  learning  points  are used up.  Don't forget to have her wear the lich
crown first!
Your own character and Valdyn also may want to learn some magic.  Decide by
yourself which ones.

It  is  important  that  you  return  to your home now and store all excess
scrolls  and  items in chests in your house.  Sell any "ordinary" equipment
you  don't  need to some merchant.  Keep the vault key and Shandra's amber,
though.

Go  to  the north-east corner of Newlake and open the vault.  You will meet
hordes  of undead monsters now and you don't want to kill them the easy way
using the holy horns, dispel undead or holy word spells.  Instead kill them
with your swords or black magic.  The earthquake spell comes in handy here.
As  a  reward, collect all gold and items the undead creep carries and sell
the  booty at the merchant's shop in Newlake.  You should be able to fatten
your purse quite nicely and be able to buy the third scimitar sword.
By now, Egil, Valdyn and yourself should own a scimitar.  Note, you can use
a shield together with it.

In  the  vault  open  the coffin at [5,14] and find a magic throwing axe, a
target  brooch  and  a parry ring.  These are excellent items any character
may  use  but  I  recommend  giving  the  axe and the brooch to Selena.  It
releases her from carrying arrows for her short bow and keeps her left hand
free  for  a  buckler  shield.  Note, the buckler (and horned helms, not to
forget)  are  not  purely  defensive in character but also raise the weapon
rating  of  the  character  that  wears  them.   As  an additional benefit,
Selena's critical hit probability is raised to 3% when wielding the axe.
Give  the  parry  ring  to  any  first-row fighter.  It magically adds some
armour protection.

You  may  use  the  coffin  to  store gold or items collected in the fights
against the undead.

At  [9,15] an illusionary wall hides a cross switch that when erected opens
a  passage north.  Fight your way through the ghouls and banshees and enter
the  crypt where grey magician Shandra is buried.  Use Shandra's amber near
the  coffin  and  hear  the dead mage speak.  In his coffin you find a book
key.  It fits to a door in the north wall of the library.

Go  to  the  library  and open this door.  At [11,6] facing north find some
destruction magic scrolls, at [5,6] (north) a recipe.  The scrolls bury the
finest  in  destruction magic available.  Stow the recipe carefully away in
your backpack and keep it at a place in your home.  You'll need it later in
the game as a key item.
Leave  the town and learn the three spells Iceball, Iceshower and Icestorm.
You cannot cast them very often in a fight but they're extremely damaging.


3. Nera

The  ship's  a  fine  transport device but it's slow and you cannot take it
with  you when you're travelling the dry land.  It becomes annoying to have
to search your ship whenever you want to leave an island again.
Sail  to  Mera's  island and find a hut at [283,519].  An evil witch master
lives  here  and  you'll kick his ass now.  Enter and find the living room.
Four  bookshelves  contain  heaps  of  scrolls.   Collect them all and have
Nelvin  learn  some  of  the  spells if he's got some spell learning points
left.

There's  a tomcat in the room and now it pays Lady Sandra taught you animal
language.   Talk  to  the  cat,  his  name is Necros.  He's pleased to meet
someone  who  looks  able to take revenge for his tail, burned by the witch
master.
He  tells  you  a  secret  that gives you access to Nera's private treasure
chest  without  having  to  fight him.  Find the stairs leading down in the
south  east  corner of the house and go down.  Click the hand icon to touch
the wall to the south and it will vanish.
Find a chest with some good items and even more scrolls.  Put all items you
don't  need  right  now into the chest, including all your gold.

You  may  notice  there's  some  stuff  in the chest you don't have use for
because  you  already own them.  It is a sign of a good game design to have
duplicates of some items in case you missed them earlier.

There's  a teleporter in the room.  Save the game and jump in.  You'll find
a  room  with  a  cauldron at [11,11] and you get attacked by two groups of
minor  demons.   Finish them off, take a rest and go west.  Nera and two of
his  demons  will  attack  you.  He will change himself to a dragon for the
fight.   Be  careful!   Nera's got four attacks per round and he hits hard.
Cast  Iceballs  on him and concentrate on him with all fighters.  When he's
done, kill the two demons.
You  will  find more scrolls and two items you don't want to miss for sure.
Take  Nera's  ring  and  give  it  to  Nelvin,  it  will  raise his maximum
spellpoints.
The  other item is the witch's broomstick and this device is the reason for
coming  here.   You may carry it wherever you like and when used allows you
to fly!  It's fast and can fly over any terrain except mountains.

East  of  [9,7]  is an illusionary wall that hides a lever.  Pull the lever
and  a  passage  at  [5,13] opens.  Climb the stairs and you're on  a small
island at [272,536].  Use the broomstick and fly back to Nera's hut.
Explore  the  rest  of  the  cellar,  fight some more minor demons and find
crystal  globes  at  [13,3]  and  [13,5] that show strange videos of flying
ships and dwarfs fighting through a jungle.

Most  probably  you're  not  able  to carry all treasures at once.  Use the
broomstick to fly to Spannenberg [584,478] and back until the booty is sold
or stored in your home completely.


4. The Gnome's Labyrinth

Fly  to [270,559] and enter the labyrinth cave of the gnomes.  Mine spiders
and  mine  lizards  are  the  monstrous  opponents in this maze.  Fight the
lizards  by  sword, they're strong and arduous and even can cast some minor
destructive spells but they're not close as mean as you are already.

The  spiders are much more dangerous.  They may cast very nasty spells like
blindness,  illness  or  madness.   Most  probably Sabine does not know all
necessary  healing spells to handle these diseases and even if she does you
might  run  into  problems  if  she  is  hit  by  madness herself.  Thus, I
recommend  you  to  use  the  Ice Storm spell against the spiders.  This is
close  to  overkill,  but  it avoids a lot of hassle.  Don't forget to rest
after a fight to regain spell points.

Pressing  a wall switch at [7,17] opens a passage at [13,21].  A teleporter
at  [19,11]  transports you to [21,11] where you can find a crate with some
useful  stuff  at  [23,12].   Return  to  [18,23]  using  the teleporter at
[22,16].

An illusionary wall east of [18,23] hides a lever [23,23].  Pull it to open
the  passage  at  [13,11].   A  door  at  [7,11]  now  grants  entry to the
underground gnome city.

Pass  the  door  at [5,8] and talk to Bralum, chief of the gnomes.  Ask him
for  his  "PROBLEM"  and  "NERA".   Since you already took care of the evil
witch master you may show him Nera's ring.  Don't offer it to him, it's too
valuable to give it away for nothing.
As a reward receive the key to Bralum's treasure chamber.

Use  the  key  to  open the door at [6,3] and find a crate holding a lot of
gold, some gems, an emerald, a wind pearl and two wishing coins.

At  [11,6] you may train searching, the shop at [13,6] offers a wind pearl,
an amber gem and a ruby s special items.

The  Inn  of  the  Shaft is located at [23,5].  Sleeping here is expensive,
camp  in  the tunnels if you are in need of a rest.  Talk to the gnomes you
meet  here  and  get more information about dwarfs and a beast that roams a
neighbouring island.
Meet Targor, a gnome mystic in the south west dormitory of the inn.  He may
join  your  party  but  the  maximum  of six characters is already reached.
Decide  by  yourself  if you want to go on with the old party members or if
you want replace someone with the mystic.
Even  if  you decide not to take him with you, you should release Egil from
your party now and let Targor join instead.  Strip him naked, take all gold
and  items  from  his  backpack  and kick him out.  Fly back to Spannenberg
[584,478] and recruit Egil once again.


5. Hunting for the Beast

Fly  to  the hut of the forest ranger [174,679] and talk to Norel.  Ask him
about  his  apprentice  "KAY" and the "BEAST" that lives in a cave near the
northern end of the island.
You'll  receive  a key to the locker at the north wall.  Open the locker to
find an elf bow, a magical throwing axe and a bundle of magical arrows.
The  bow  may be handled by a thief so it might be a good idea to have Egil
and  your own character wield the throwing axes and let Selena use the bow.
It is a mighty weapon with an attack value of 30.

Fly  to  the  cave  entrance at [222,542].  You will meet imps in the cave.
They  are  moderately strong fighters, have moderate 75 hit points each and
are  able  to  cast  some  moderately destructive spells like Windhowler or
Earthslide.   These  were  the good news.  The bad news is, they are nearly
perfectly  immune  to  magic.  Don't waste spell points casting destructive
magic against imps, it won't work anyway.

Near  [12,7]  get  alarmed by noises from the south and find an illusionary
wall  at  [14,7].   Pass  it and enter the lair of the vicious beast.  Cast
iceball spells and attack.
Once  you  killed  it,  you  find an amulet that belonged to Norel's missed
apprentice  Kay.   He  was the beast himself!  You cure his lycanthropy  by
killing him and may return the amulet to Kay.  Show it to him and receive a
staff made from a rare kind of wood.


6. The Shrine of Winds

By  now  you  should have encountered 12 wind pearls in total.  If you have
not  done  so  already,  buy  the remaining ones from the shops we visited.
Have  the xenobil staff and an ordinary gem in your backpack.  Get the wind
shrine  key  from  your  stores (the key you found in the Newlake library).
You'll   need   twelve  wind  pearls  and  the  mother-o-pearl  chain  from
grandfather's broken chest.

Take  all  these  items  to  [266,635]  and enter the shrine using the key.
You'll find two altars inside.
Use  the  xenobil staff at the left altar and together with an ordinary gem
it  will  change into a construction staff.  This is a device to repair the
broken blue shimmering gates you probably already observed while travelling
the islands.
At  the  right  altar  use the mother-o-pearl chain and get a wind chain in
return.   Use  the  chain and it appears in the display of permanent items.
It will allow you to use the wind gates.

Wind  gates  work  in pairs and only if both of one pair is OK.  One of the
gates  of  each pair is located  on the island of winds, the other ones are
spread  all  over  Lyramion.   Enter  a  gate  and  get transported to it's
counterpart.   The island of winds acts as a central crossing - one gate of
each  pair always is located here.  Unfortunately all gates are broken with
one exception but we will not make use of it now.

Repairing s broken gate is rewarded by a good deal of experience points.  I
recommend to restrain yourself from this task for some time, though.  There
are  a number of characters to hire you have not met yet and you don't want
to waste a valuable source of experience on characters that won't stay with
your  party  anyway.   Once you've decided for yourself who is to belong to
your "final" party feel free to perform the repairs.


7. Illien

Illien,  the  home  city of the elves is located at [376,277].  It has four
small  town park in each of  its corners and a riddle mouth hidden in each.
The riddles they ask are somewhat difficult - at least if your literacy and
combinatorial talents don't surpass the abilities of brain-dead seaweed.

Here  are  the  solutions  to  the riddles:  "NOSE", "NEEDLE", "MIRROR" and
"MAGIC RING".  Which  words  make which riddlemouth disappear is left as an
exercise to the reader.

Solving any of the riddles is not vital - the vanishing mouths grant access
to more wishing wells.

The  magic  wells  increase  strength  (SW),  stamina  (NW),  luck (NE) and
anti-magic (SE).

In the town centre find the palace of Pelanis, the head of the local elves.
Ask  him  about  his  "CONCERNS"  or the "CURSE" that struck the eagles and
their  guards.

You  learn  about  the  Snake Goddess Sansrie - Amberstar veterans probably
remember  her  - and you are expected to get a pint of her blood as a charm
for the curse.  This will be one of the next adventures.

Visit  the master harper Matthias (Matthias Steinwachs, the composer of the
in-game music) at the west side of the town and ask him for a "HARP". He'll
offer  you  to buy one of his own making for the sum of 10,000 gold pieces.
Buy  if  you  can  afford  easily  -  for now it's only use is as a kind of
music-box.   You  can  listen to any musical score built into the game when
you  use  the  harp.  Later it becomes a key item of the adventure, but you
can delay the expense until then.

The  tavern  asks  exorbitant  prices  for  the service it offers - resting
outside  the  town  is  advisable.   You  should  visit  the tavern to meet
Leonaria,  though.   She's  one  of  the mightiest characters you may hire.
Being a level 25 alchemist she probably is more experienced than your whole
party  altogether  right at the moment.  Decide yourself if you want her to
replace  any  of  the  other characters.  Even if you want to avoid her you
should temporarily take her into the party.  (Strip her naked, take all her
gold, equipment and food to aid thee in thy noble quest.  Then kick her out
again.)

The  weapon  shop  north of the palace has some nice items to complete your
equipment.  Note the rainbow stone it sells.


8. Sansrie's Island

Fly  to the Island of Winds and enter the gate at [273,623].  It's the only
gate  that  works  currently and it will transport you to Sansrie's island.
You  cannot  get  here  using  the  broomstick  because the whole island is
completely surrounded by mountains.

Fly  to  [442,697]  and  enter  the  town of Snakesign.  The equipment shop
offers  some extremely good items, for example a pair of lightning boots, a
magical  throwing  axe,  a  target  brooch and most notably a mithril chain
mail.   This  armour  offers  15  points  of armour bonus to a character of
arbitrary  class  and  weighs  merely  half  a kilogram.  You have to spend
15,000  gold coins for it, but it's worth the price.  Keep 2,500 gold coins
to  be  able to buy a serpentstone.  You need it as a passkey to the temple
of Sansrie.

Note, finally, the topaz gem for sale here.

Leave the town and fly to [431,745], the entrance to Sansrie's temple.  The
monsters  that  guard the temple are minotaurs, bull-headed giant humanoids
wielding  large  battle  axes.   They have two attacks per round and may do
around  30  points  of  damage with a single hit.  Also, they may cast some
minor  spells (earthquake, earthslide, mudsling).  They can take 220 points
of  damage  before  they fall.  Their main weakness is their mediocre speed
which  make  them  susceptible to the "Dance of Death" tactics described in
the Cheats & Dirty Tricks appendix.

The  good  news is, the axes they carry sell well.  By the time you're done
with the temple chances are, the Snakesign equipment shop becomes Lyramions
main  distributor  for  used  battle  axes.   Add to this the fact that the
minotaurs  seem  to  carry  their  whole  bargain  with them on guard (very
careless in these times) and you can imagine the fatness of your purse once
you leave.

Enter  the  temple  and head north.  A teleport will appear in the northern
niche  of the entry hall if you bring a serpentstone along with you.  Enter
the  teleporter.   There is an exiting teleporter to the south but using it
will destroy the serpentstone so you might want to avoid it.

Head  west  and  enter  a great hall.  In the south east corner of the hall
there  is  a system of illusionary walls.  Work through it to find a lever.
It'll  open  a  passage between the entrance hall and this hall.  You don't
need  to  buy  more  serpentstones  just  for  a  short axe-selling trip to
Snakesign  and  back.  If you get lost between the illusionary walls, try a
spell of magic mapping to make the passages visible in the map view.

The  great  hall has an exit west.  Follow the passage behind until you get
warned,  then attacked by two minotaurs that guard a door north.  There are
illusionary  walls  east  and  west  of  [5,30].   Behind  you'll  see  big
hourglasses.

The  maze to the north features seven levers that you must pull in order to
open  a  passage  at [16,10].  They are located at [5,15], [5,26], [11,15],
[14,19],  [22,13],  [22,19] and [26,15].  There is a trick needed to access
the lever at [22,19] since a wall blocks further passage when closing in on
[21,21].

Find  the  chest  at [6,19] and take out the timestopper.  Go to [5,30] and
behind  the  illusionary  walls stand in front of the hourglasses.  Use the
timestopper to smash them.  The obstacle at [21,21] will disappear now.

When  you have pulled all levers, go to [16,10] and follow the passage east
then north.  You'll enter a large hallway.  Follow it to the west, pass the
door  and  find  the  next  door  leading  south.   At  [11,9]  there is an
illusionary  wall  to the east.  A treasure chest behind holds some magical
rings  and  a  little  fortune in gold.  The chest is a good place to store
some excess axes and gold in case you are burdened with too much riches.

Follow  the  staircase  into  the  next  level  of  the temple.  Notice the
graphics slip here:  the stairs seem to lead up, yet you enter a sewer-like
dungeon halfway filled with water.

This level is easy structured.  Follow the only way south, then north up to
a  3×3  area  of  teleporters.   The  eastmost teleporter in the middle row
transports you to Sansrie's throne room, the others to a fighting area with
two  sets  of  minotaurs.   The  minotaurs seem to pop up anew whenever you
enter this area so you may want to remember this place as a good source for
money and experience points.

In Sansrie's throne room fight her and two minotaurs.  She tries to impress
you  by  turning  herself into a five-headed hydra, giving her five attacks
per  fighting  round.   She's  able  to cast some mediocre spells but she's
slow,  in fact even slower than the minotaurs.  Handle her by the "Dance of
Death"  tactics  or  simply slay her without further fuss.  You may have to
cast some healing spells during the fight in this case.

With  her  material  body broken she is banned from Lyramions face for some
time.   She's  a  goddess  after all and your grandfather performed similar
blasphemy on her seventy years ago so I suppose she's not really dead.

She leaves a flask of her blood, a necklace and a ring.  The last two items
are   very  useful  for  any  spellcaster  but  are  restricted  to  female
characters.   There also is a key that opens a door in the middle of a
tunnel, entrances are at [415,709] and [413,722] on the surface.

There  are  two  teleporters  in the NW and NE corners of the room.  The NE
teleporter  transports  you  into the minotaur arena in the same level, the
other  one  brings  you  all  way  outside  of  the  temple in front of the
entrance.

In  case  you  want  to explore Sansrie's Tunnel first, there are some nice
items  to  collect  here.  There is a pair of sorcerer boots that is broken
but  make  a  nice footwear for Nelvin once they're repaired.  You may also
find  a  snake  helmet.   Don't wear it or receive a nasty surprise, it's a
cursed  item.   You may take it with you in your backpack without harm.  It
sells for a few gold coins.

Return  to  the  wind  gate  at [470,729] and go to Illien.  Give Sansrie's
blood  to  Pelanis and  receive a flute and a key to a treasure room in the
palace.

The flute is an extremely useful item.  You may use it as often as you like
to  call  a giant eagle.  It carries you at great speed even over mountains
and is the most convenient transportation method.  There are several places
that are reachable on the eagle's back only.
Unfortunately  the  eagle's  flight is the source of another annoying Amiga
bug.   When  you  land  and  dismount  the eagle, an internal error "out of
memory  handles"  is  generated  on  occasion,  terminating the game.
I recommend saving the game often when using the eagle's service.
Another quirk is the fact you are allowed to fly over mountains but certain
building  roofs  seem to be an obstacle.  This is no grave problem but goes
against logic a little bit.

The treasure also contains a topaz gem.


9. Gryban

The  library  in  Newlake featured the Paladin book and you receive further
hints  on  the  last  of  the  Paladins  when you talk to people in Illien.
Gryban  is the name of the paladin companion of your grandfather during the
Amberstar adventure.  He is said to be asleep in castle Godsbane, the place
where  an evil magician once tried to evoke a demon lord.  Using a token of
might,  a  star-shaped  amber  stone,  your  grandfather  and his companion
prevented the completion of the evocation.
Thornahuun,  the demon lord, was banned into an asteroid circling Lyramion.
It  was  this  asteroid  that crashed on Lyramion's surface - you can watch
this in the intro sequence of Ambermoon.

Gryban is said to have stayed in Godsbane castle to guard the Amberstar.

Use  the  eagle flute and fly to [404,77], the entrance of the castle.  You
cannot go here by other means.

The  castle  itself  is   not  hard  at  all.   The guard golems are more a
nuisance  than  a  danger.   Find the two levers at [3,13] and [17,13] that
remove   walls  at  [17,23]  and  [3,23].   You  now  have  access  to  two
teleporters.

The  one at [17,23] beams you to a riddle mouth that asks for the sleeper's
name "GRYBAN".
He  may  get  invited into your party as a forceful fighter with additional
healer's  capabilities.   He  can  use  the best equipment available and is
nearly  as  good at fighting as a fighter.  Paladins have the same multiple
attack  feature  and since Gryban is already at level 35 he makes heavy use
of it.
His  healer's  abilities are limited but nevertheless may prove useful.  If
you decide to invite him, don't forget to complete his training later.

A teleport at [3,3] brings you back to the castle's entry hall.

The other teleport at [3,23] transports you in front of the Amberstar keep.
Enter and take it out of the chest you see.  Return to the entry hall using
the teleport at [17,3].


10. The Tower of Lebab

During your travels all over Lyramion you probably already noticed the huge
tower  located  at  [438,562].   There  are  several  cave  entries  in the
surrounding mountains at [462,565], [441,557], [413,561] and [425,576].

You  will  meet  gargoyles here.  They're stronger than imps but your party
should  have  no  problem  with  them.  There are a lot of gargoyles in the
caves  and  the  tower, which makes this episode take some time.  Gargoyles
carry  a big supply of magical arrows.  If you are using bows yourself this
is a good opportunity to collect enough arrows for the rest of the game.

Start at [425,576].  This small cave features a crate with some treasury as
it's only highlight.

Next  enter  the  cave  at  [413,561].   Meet  Drek  the  Mage who seems to
responsible for this gargoyle plague.  Note, he attacks because he suspects
you to be sent by Lebab - a guy you've not even heard of yet, let alone you
have  not been weaving evil plots with Lebab against this paranoid Drek guy
you also meet for the first time!
Take  care you make this the last time you meet him, too.  Sometimes people
are  easier to handle if you act as they expect.  In his possessions you'll
find a key.

The entries at [441,557] and [462,565] are interconnected by a maze.  Since
you  already  own the flute it does not matter which entry you take but I'd
suggest  you  start  at [462,565].  Work through a series of spinner plates
and take a bath in the blood of dozens of gargoyles until you finally leave
the cave at [441,557].

You're  now  in  the valley with the tower.  Use the key you found when you
fought Drek to open the tower entry at [438,562].

In  the  first  level there are illusionary walls to the north of [5,6] and
[10,6].   Behind you can find a pulsating light that explodes when touched.
I  was  not  able to find out what the effects of this are, it does no harm
nor does it affect a character's stats.  The other illusionary wall hides a
barrel containing a mithril shirt that definitely is of use for you.

Take  the  stairs  to  level two and follow the passage.  There's a spinner
disk halfway.

Another  staircase  leads  up  to  level three.  Follow the passage up to a
door.   Save  the  game  now.   Behind  the door is a room with erratically
moving  floor holes.  You have to guess which hole is the right one to jump
in.   Chose  the single right one and enter a small room with two teleports
in  level  two.   Chose  any  of the others and you suffer some damage, get
transported into a passage with two spinner plates and a wall button to the
far  north.   Press  the  button and a wall to the south vanishes.  You may
jump down another hole here and end up in the entry hall in level one.
Run  up  to  level  three  and  retry  until  you're successful or read the
corresponding section in the Cheats & Dirty Tricks Appendix.

When  you luckily jumped down the right hole you are offered two teleports.
If  you take the western one, you get transported to the entry hall and you
have  to start the whole process over again.  Take the eastern teleport and
get beamed to level four.

A  teleport west of you brings you back to the teleport choice room but you
can  ignore  it.  Level four features more nasty surprises.  Do not use any
exit  other than the one located at [5,13] or fall all the way down outside
the  tower.  In several places all your timed magical spells get blown out,
including  your  light  source.   Fight  the gargoyles and find the exit at
[5,13] to ascend to level 5 of the tower.

At [12,11] there is an illusionary wall to the south.  A lever behind makes
a  staircase appear in the centre of the level.  Go to the central room and
watch  a  group  of  gargoyles get kills by stone golems.  Go north and get
attacked  by  the  golems.  It should be no big deal to transform them into
some  nice  heaps  of pebbles.  Finally, go up the stairs to the top of the
tower.

There  is  a  lever at [11,13].  Pull it to open a shortcut from level 1 of
the tower directly to the top level.  The teleport at [8,8] offers the easy
way there and back again.
An  illusionary  wall  south  of  [6,10] hides a chest some potions, a wind
pearl you don't need any more, a wishing coin and a scimitar sword.
Find  Lebab  in his room and talk to him about "DREK" and the "TOWER".  The
shop  in  the north east of the level is run by Lebab's daughter and offers
recharging  of  magical items.  Recharge the crystal ball you found at your
grandfather's  cellar  here.  It will provide a map view of the surrounding
area when used outside.  There will be very good use of this item later.


11. Eye of the spider, slime of the snake...

You  will  now  do  some nice cooking but you need some ingredients for the
very  special  food additive you will prepare.  You'll have to fly all over
Lyramion  to  get them but fortunately, this walkthrough directs you to the
places  you  have to visit.  Remember to save the game before you are using
the eagle.  I was struck by the "out of memory handles" internal error just
after  collecting the final item and immediately enriched the vocabulary of
my family by a whole bunch of new and interesting words.

Get the following items:

    A leaf of the Fire Thistle from [248,475],
    a blossom of the Swamp Lily from [657,307],
    a leaf of Kalmir Herb from [473,582],
    a red mushroom from the shop at Burnville [530,594],
    a blue mushroom from the Spannenberg shop [584,478],
    a set of steel & flintstone from the Thieves Guild Shop in the cellar
      of the Limping Rogue, also in Spannenberg,
    an empty phial from Alkem's shop in his tower at [521,328]
      or from the drink shop in Illien [376,277],
    and finally the recipe you found in the Newlake library [348,352].

Fly to Nera's hut (for simplicity, use the entry at [272,537]).  Stand near
the  cauldron  at  [11,11]  and  use  the recipe to prepare the Demon Sleep
Potion.


12. Thornahuun

Several  people in Spannenberg, Newlake and Illien hinted you to the Temple
of  the  Brotherhood guarding the Shrine of Thornahuun.  Have the Amberstar
you got in Godsbane Castle [404,77] with you in your backpack.
The  temple  is located at [444,398].  In former times, before the asteroid
fell  on  Lyramion  this  was  the  place  of  your grandfather's home town
Twinlake.
Save your game before you enter, there are some nasty enemies awaiting you.

In the entry hall you'll see a crystal wall north.  You can't pass here for
the  moment,  so  surround the structure and continue north until you see a
huge demon guarding a door.  Don't get closer than the last crossing before
him  or  he'll  attack you.
You  don't  want  to  fight him for three reasons.  First, he'll crush you.
He's  completely  immune  to  magic and his armour protection is far beyond
your  fighting  capabilities.   However  strong  you may be, your party can
swallow a limited amount of Ice Storm spells only.
Second,  there  is  another  game  bug that crashes your Amiga when certain
spells  are  cast  upon  your  party.   You  may  try out this sometime, it
provides  you with some really colourful patterns on your monitor until you
give your girlfriend the famous "three-finger-salute".
Third,  there  is  a  very  simple  way  to handle him.  To the west of the
crossing  you'll  find  his food bowl.  Use the Demon Sleep potion near his
dinner  and wait until he decides to eat it.  He'll fall asleep and just as
described  in  the  recipe,  he's  unable  to  keep his material form while
sleeping and simply vanishes.

Go  north  into  a  square  room with doors to all directions and a spinner
plate  in  the  centre.  You'll now have to deal with magical guardians and
these  enemies  are  about  the  toughest  opponents  you'll  encounter  on
Lyramion.   They  are  fairly  resistant  to  magic, they're well protected
against regular attacks and may deal out critical hits, immediately killing
a party member.
The  cure  against this pest is a tactics that works with many role-playing
games  and  is  commonly called "Dance of Death".  Place the quickest Party
members  into  the  first  fighting row with some distance in between.  Let
these characters move left or right in every fighting row and the guardians
will  miss  them.   The back row uses magical throwing axes or good bows to
finish off the guardians in the meantime.

I normally use this formation:

                                Va       Se

                                Th Ne Sa Gr

Where  Va=Valdyn  and  Se=Selena  play  the  role of the dancing decoys and
Th=Thalion  (your  character),  Ne=Nelvin,  Sa=Sabine  and Gr=Gryban do the
fighting.
When  there  are  more opponents you may have to put a third character into
the first row to prevent the enemies from infiltrating your ranks and thus,
spoiling your tactics.

Go  through  the  east door and the south through another door.  Follow the
passage up to a staircase and go down.

You'll  find  a door that can be opened using the Amberstar as a key.  Make
sure you're fully rested before you enter and save your game!  You now meet
Thornahuun,  God  of  Chaos,  King  of Hell in person.  It's a good idea to
prepare your party with the Magical Attack, Magical Wall and Magical Sphere
spells  before  you  go  near his coffin.  The Dance of Death tactics works
against  him,  too, but be prepared he casts some Fire Pillar or Fire Storm
spells in the first fighting rounds.

In  case  you're  a  little confused Thornahuun is sometimes called Tarbos,
here  is  the explanation.  Thornahuun is the demon lord that tried to gain
power  over  Lyramion by a fusion with an overambitious human magician over
thousand  years ago.  Tarbos was the name of the combined entity of Tar and
Thornahuun.  Fortunately he was banned by the combined efforts of the white
mage guild.
Seventy  years  ago  when  the  misguided magician Marmion tried to evocate
Tarbos  and  free him from his prison, your grandfather prevented the final
step of the ceremony.

When Thornahuun is killed you'll find one half of a broken amulet.

Leave  the  temple on the way you got in.  It's not necessary to explore it
completely for now.


13. The Madman

Fly  to  Spannenberg  and visit the house of the healers.  Find Clementine,
the  cook and ask her about the "CELLAR" and the "MADMAN" that lives there.
Go  down the stairs now and have a look at the chest to the east.  It holds
an  old  and  torn  robe,  the  key to the cell on the west and a part of a
broken  amulet  that seems familiar to you. Indeed, it's the other halve of
the  piece you already own.  Go to the cell but do not enter!  Instead wait
until  the  man  inside comes close enough to the cell bars to talk to him.
He's  a little confused but shows some reaction when you show him a part of
the amulet.

Leave Spannenberg and meet Theresa at the artist's house in Burnville.  Ask
her  to  repair  the  amulet  (simply give her one part) and she'll fit the
parts together.  The complete amulet seems to embarrass her somewhat.

Return  to Spannenberg and give it to the madman.  The man seems to receive
a  shock  when  he gets the amulet and something seems to change about him.
He collapses sobbing.
Now  you  may  unlock  the cell and enter.  Talk to the man again and learn
he's  Tar, known as "The Dark".  He shows regret over his failure to resist
Thornahuun  and  all  the  evil things resulting from that and asks to join
your party.
Tar  is  a  level  35  mage  and  has  knowledge  of all destructive spells
available.  It's a good idea to replace Nelvin by him.

Tar  is the final hireable character you'll meet on Lyramion and you should
decide  now  which characters you want to belong to the party that finishes
the game.  The available characters are:

Name        Class       Race        Gender  Home

Egil        Fighter     human       M       Spannenberg trainer's house
Selena      Thief       sylph       F       Sylph cave
Nelvin      Mage        half-elf    M       guest chamber in Alkem's tower
Sabine      Healer      human       F       healer's house in Burneville
Valdyn      Ranger      feline      M       Bolgar tower
Targor      Mystic      gnome       M       inn at subterranean Gnome city
Gryban      Paladin     half-elf    M       Godsbane castle
Tar         Mage        human       M       healer's house in Spannenberg
Leonaria    Alchemist   elf         F       inn at Illien town
Monika      Healer      human       F       Thalion office
Netsrak     Mage        thalionic   M       Thalion office
Eric        Warrior     dwarf       M       Thalion office
Mando       Thief       half-elf    M       Thalion office
Chris       Mystic      elf         M       Thalion office

Nearly  any  combination  is  conceivable, each character has strengths and
drawbacks.   The  most powerful party probably consists of yourself, Gryban
and  Valdyn  in  the fighting ranks and Tar, Sabine and Leonaria as magical
support  in  your back, Note however, there are some good items that can be
used  by  females  only.   Also,  you  need at least one character that has
knowledge of the dwarf  language so you should take with you one or more of
Nelvin, Targor or Gryban.


14. Repairing the Gates

Once  you've  put  the  party  together  you're  ready to repair the broken
windgates spread all over Lyramion.  You need the staff of construction you
made  in  the shrine of winds for this task.  To repair a gate stand at one
of  the  gate  posts  and use the construction staff.  The gate will now be
functional and every party member is awarded 500 experience points.

The positions of the broken gates are:

    [513,168]   [278,365]   [612,388]   [564,662]
    [398, 25]   [427,565]   [310,735]   [225,690]
    [197,367]   [283,253]   [271,563]

The gate at [470,729] (Sansrie's island) is not broken.

There  are  other  places  of  interest that you may want to visit just for
completeness' sake:

    [277,75]    A whirling maelstrom that drags ships under water and spits
                them  out  again in the inland water near the Temple of the
                Brotherhood.

    [524,155]   An oasis with refreshing water.  Jump in for a swim...


15. Gemstone

Amberstar  veterans  will remember  a small but noticeable dwarf population
spread  all  over  Lyramion.   How  many  dwarfs  did  you meet during the
Ambermoon  adventure  yet?   Not  a single one I'd guess.  Interviewing the
gnomes  or  the elves in Illien reveals that the people there have not seen
any dwarfs for some time either.

Sure,  nobody  in  Illien  seems to  actually miss the dwarfs, but this may
have  to do with traditional resentments  between the two races.  The elves
think  of dwarfs as greedy little bags of shit who always can be found near
places  where  some  peaceful  merchant had cut his throat recently and got
robbed  of  a  few  valuable gems.
There's  no  evidence  for  such deeds, though, mainly due to the fact that
everybody  who  was  stupid  enough  to  volunteer as a witness against the
dwarf  community  fell victim to a sudden and deadly illness (usually while
eating  lunch)  or  suffered tragic traffic incidents where one of the rare
horse  carriages  accidently  ran  over  the poor wretch two or three dozen
times.
Dwarfs, on  the other hand, are absolutely convinced elves are fairy queens
and they think of male elves when they use this term.
Indeed, there is some affectionate behaviour to the elves and also, there's
that  traditional  pink  or  mint coloured tight trousers elves use to call
"trés  chiquè".  Rumour goes, there is an increasing frustration and sexual
unfulfillment among elven maidens that comes close to starvation.
Of course, this is all gossip and slander as thousands of half-elves around
Illien are ready to confirm you.

Do  you  remember  the  strange  scenes visible in the crystal balls in the
cellar  below Nera's hut?  The elves are not likely to be happy when you go
to  your  next  quest  to find out what happened to the dwarfs.  Unless, of
course,  you  return  with  the  good  news all dwarfs died on an allergic
reaction to jewellery.

The  dwarf capital of former times was named Gemstone.  This looks like the
best  place  to start your search for  the dwarfs.  Travel to [319,759] and
visit the deserted city.

There  are two wishing wells.  The one at [22,21] increases party speed and
the second at [4,21] increases dexterity.
Behind  a  door at [4,3] meet Bore, a real, living dwarf!  Bore seems to be
an  enthusiastic  fan  of  certain  exotic herbs and mushrooms, though.  He
thinks  the other dwarfs are "FLOWN AWAY" in a big boat to a "GREEN JEWEL",
forgetting  to  take  him  with them.  The only thing he says that seems to
make  some sense is he used to work for "DONNER" in a mine.  He hid the key
to  the mine inside a maze on a nearby island.  You have to push a rod into
the stone to open the maze.  Distracted for a moment he does not realize he
drops the rod.  You take the rod as he does not need it currently anyway.
Maybe,  when  this  is all over and peace reigns Lyramion again, you should
try to find out what stuff Bore uses to become incredibly stoned like this.

At [12,4] is a ladder down.  You surprise a group of warriors pillaging the
weapon  store  of  the  dwarfs.   Kill  them  off and  find two trunks with
valuable  weaponry.   You  realize  how imprudent the dwarfs  were to leave
these  items  unwatched  and  you  decide  to  take care of it.  How easily
something  could  get  stolen!  Perhaps it's best to keep the items in your
backpack  until  the  dwarfs   return  or even better in the stores of some
trustworthy shopkeeper you happen to know in Spannenberg.

Up  in  the  town  again  find  an illusionary wall east of [21,3].  A wall
button  at  [23,5]  makes  appear  a  door into a building labelled "Kire's
Palace".
A  lever  at  [11,18] opens a passage north.  Enter the teleport at [12,14]
and  find some interesting things at [15,10], including a diamond gem and a
book written by Kire.
Behind a door east fight some spiders.
There are several places in Gemstone you are attacked by opponents of early
adventures - see how effortlessly you can beat them to pulps now!
At [18,13] find several bottles with potions.  There also is an illusionary
wall  to  the  west.   Press  the  button  at  [15,14] and a wall at [9,12]
vanishes.   Find  another  button  at  [9,14]  that activates a teleport at
[9,17].   You  have  to pass the illusionary wall south of [8,15] to get to
it.
The teleport will bring you back to the entrance of the palace.

Now  read the book you found.  Kire, the leader of the dwarfs  of Gemstone,
describes  how  his people installed machinery of unknown purpose below the
Temple  of  the  Brotherhood.   They  were paid by getting transported to a
green  jewel,  using  a  flying  ship  big  enough  to  hold all dwarfs  of
Lyramion.   (Dwarfs   ain't  that  big after all.  Packed in units of seven
they  probably  fit  a  twelve  inch  box.  Simply chop off all extremities
jutting out.)
Kire  mentions  the  members  of the Brotherhood are somewhat shy and don't
show  their  faces  to other people.  Put together the strange observations
the   people  in  Newlake  made  recently  regarding  the  temple  and  the
Brotherhood  and  you certainly know now there's something strange going on
there.


16. Donner's Mine

Fly home and store or sell all superfluous items.  Take care you have a set
of tools available in your backpack.  You'll need a pickaxe and a crowbar.

The  monsters  you'll  meet are mine lizards and mine spiders.  The spiders
cast  all  kinds of nasty spells, e.g.  madness, panic, lameness,  and it's
certainly  a  good idea to have some antidotes ready.  Either have a healer
or  paladin  learn  the  corresponding  cure  spells  or  have enough magic
scrolls, herbs and potions ready to heal all kinds of diseases.

We'll  now  visit Donner's mine Bore mentioned.  Fly to [255,714] and stand
next  to  the  small  stone  formation  you can see here.  Use the staff of
opening you took from Bore and a cave entrance appears.

At  [19,14]  use  a  pickaxe  to  remove an obstacle to the north and go to
[15,12].   Open  the  door  to  the  west  using a crowbar and find a crate
containing Donner's key.
There's  a  switch  at the south wall of [11,15] that removes a wall to the
west.

South  of [8,19] there is an exit to [223,717] on the surface.  Use the key
you just found to open the door north of [4,18].

Use  the  pickaxe  at  [3,7],  [7,6], [9,8] and [13,9] for some fights.  At
[10,5]  it  allows  access  to  a chest with some nice weaponry and armour.
Finally,  use  the  pickaxe  at  [14,7]  and  you'll  find  a crate with an
earthstone and some gold.


17. The secret of The Brotherhood

Return  to the Temple of The Brotherhood at [444,398].  You'll finally have
to find out what's wrong with these guys.

From the room with the spinner plate go west and follow the unbranched path
to the head priest's inner chambers one level down.  Save your game now.

Take  the  door  west  of  [8,4] and meet S'orel.  Obviously, he's not even
human but some lizard man instead.  Without any chance to avoid it he hurls
a  fire  ball  unto  your  party,  causing  great damage.  Then, he and two
magical  guardians  attack you.  Be prepared for a tough fight, S'orel is a
powerful magician and the guardians keep a part of your party busy.

When you win the fight you'll find a key.  Take it to the chest east of the
door  at [8,5] and use the key to unlock the chest.  Get the hangar key and
the S'orel News parchment.

Read  the  parchment  to  reveal  the  unbelievable  danger  that threatens
Lyramion.

Morag,  the  home  planet  of  S'orel,  has  been  struck  by an ecological
catastrophe.    To  overcome  the  consequences  the  Moranians  infiltrate
Lyramion,   using   the   fear   from   Thornahuun/Tarbos  to  cover  their
organization.   The  dwarfs   are recruited to construct a devilish machine
that  may recreate the ecosphere of Morag, but will destroy Lyramion in the
process.
The  dwarfs   did  not  know the function of the machine and were betrayed,
too.   They  are  transported to one of the moons surrounding Lyramion they
took to be a single huge green gem because of its colour.   Of course, they
were  wrong.   The  surface of the moon is covered with primeval forest and
swamps, plagued by horrible monsters and a deadly vegetation.  The dwarfs ,
set  out  in this unhealthy place are struggling for their bare lives since
twenty years ago.

Go  back  to  the ground floor of the temple and use the hangar key to open
the  door  north  of  the  spinner  plate.  Enter and ascend to the airship
hangar.

Explore  the  ship  and  find strange metal orbs at [4,5], [6,8] and [8,5].
Signs  fitted  to  the  walls next to the orbs read "Lyramion", "Morag" and
"Forest  Moon",  indicating  that  the  orb  devices  have  the function of
navigating  the  ship through space.  You have no idea, though, how this is
going to work.

At  [3,13]  find  the  skeleton  of a dwarf.  He still clutches a scroll of
parchment,  an  amber  gem  and a key.  The scroll says he has been send by
Kire to creep into the ship as a stowaway and get help from Lyramion.  Kire
was  able  to  hide away an item called "navigation stone" in the old dwarf
mine west of Spannenberg and protected it by locks only openable by certain
gemstones.
The key is for the chest that holds the stone.

There  are  three  chests  at [8,15], [6,16] and [4,15].  They hold a Morag
dart,  an  excellent  long  range  weapon  useable  by any character except
healers  and  a  weight close to nothing.  The character even gets stronger
when wielding this weapon.
You  also  find  a Morag robe, an excellent armour suited for spellcasters,
boosting magic abilities, speed and spell points.

Make the airship your headquarter and bring all gold, rations, useful spell
scrolls  and  potions  here.   Don't  forget  to have a reasonable stock of
magical  arrows,  ropes, lanterns, tools and any item you think useful in a
world of restricted supplies.

Have  your  spellcasters learn as many spells as possible.  Be sure to have
your own character learn the jump spell.


18. Ye Old Dwarf Mine

You  will  now  need  the  various  gems  you collected during the previous
adventures.   In  case you  missed any of  the jewellery, here is a mostly
complete list:

    Gem             Location

    Topaz           Merchant in Snakesign [442,697]
                    Treasure locker at Pelanis' palace in Illien [376,277]
    Ruby            Shop in artist's house in Burnville [530,594]
                    Merchant in gnome city [270,559]
    Emerald         Merchant in Spannenberg [584,478]
                    Bralum's treasure chest in gnome city [270,559]
    Earth Stone     Merchant in Burneville [530,594]
                    Donner's mine [223,717]
    Quartz Crystal  Old cave below your home [626,461]
    Rainbow Stone   Weapons shop in Illien [376,277]
    Diamond         Kire's palace in Gemstone [319,759]
    Amber Gem       Dwarf skeleton in airship [444,398]
                    Merchant in gnome city [270,559]

Most of the gems are available twice, but you need only one of each kind.

The  mine  of  the  dwarfs  is  located in midst  the volcanic area west of
Spannenberg at [524,433].  The sign at the entrance reads

                    LABYRINTH OF THE DWARFS - ENTER AT
                               YOUR OWN RISK

                    KIRE

Inside  you  have  to  find metal sockets for the gemstones in the sequence
given in Kire's parchment.  Each time you use the correct stone at a socket
another wall disappears in the dungeon and you can access the next socket.

               Socket      Gemstone        Wall removed

               [15,16]     Topaz           East  of [ 7,19]
               [10,18]     Ruby            East  of [17, 3]
               [20, 4]     Emerald         East  of [ 4,14]
               [ 7,13]     Earth Stone     West  of [20,18]
               [17,14]     Quartz Crystal  East  of [17, 9]
               [20, 8]     Rainbowstone    East  of [13,18]
               [16,19]     Diamond         West  of [16, 6]
               [13, 9]     Amber Gem       North of [ 7,11]

Now  you can get to a crate at [7,6].  Open it using the key you found with
the dead dwarf and find a Green Navstone.



V. The Green Jewel
------------------

Return  to  the  airship  and  use  the navstone at [8,5] to journey to the
Forest  Moon.   Be  warned!   There  is  no  easy  way back to Lyramion and
whatever  you leave here is not accessible to you until you find a means to
return.

The adventures on this moon are in my opinion the absolute highlight of the
game.   Enjoy  the  colourful and extremely detailed graphics and the story
plot sparkling of ideas.


1. Dor Kiredon

Leave  the  airship  and  go  north  to  [180,130].   If you still have the
broomstick  in  your backpack, a red-bearded demon appears and destroys it.
Never  mind,  you  don't  need  it  anymore.  (I suspect the demon to be an
incarnation  of  Forest Moon designer Eric Simon.  We have to ask him to be
sure.)
You'll  reach Dor Kiredon, a stronghold city erected by the dwarfs.   Go in
and meet the inhabitants.

Explore  the  city but avoid wandering around at night until you find a way
to avoid these annoying curse wasp swarms.

Enter Kire's Palace in the NW part of the town.  Meet Kire and question him
about his wife "DORINA".  He will give you a letter and asks you to deliver
it to her.
Find  Storgat,  responsible for the experimental "MINE".  He tells you, the
mine  has  been closed due to a "TORNAK" invasion and Kire holds the "KEY".
Kire, however, won't give the key to strangers when asked for it.
At  [19,65]  discover  90  rations  of food, at [21,65] a pick axe and some
clothes.

In  the  middle  of  the town you'll find an inn run by Doreb.  Talk to him
about  his "INN" and hear he's a relative of "DORINA".  He hints you to
ask  Brog  about  her, a dwarf that is expected to be around the inn in the
evenings.
Meet  Darbog,  a  merchant  from  "DOR GRESTIN", a second dwarf city to the
south-west  of Dor Kiredon.  It is inhabited by a group of dwarfs  that try
to  arrange themselves with the wild nature of the moon instead of fighting
it.
At  [26,14]  find  110  rations.  Take it as food is quite expensive on the
Forest  Moon.   If you consider this stealing, don't mind.  You're about to
save  the  asses  of  the  dwarfs   so they'd better be not too picky about
"mine" and "yours".
A cupboard at [15,19] holds a pick-axe, some clothing and a gem.
In  the evenings the inn gets more populated.  Ask Donner, about "HOME" and
"FATE" and learn more about Kire's family.
Brog  tells  you  about  the  dwarf general ignorance regarding "MAGIC" and
that  "DORINA"  was  known to be a talented magician.  As a further hint he
mentions his brother Asrub from Dor Grestin who has more detailed knowledge
about magic.

Go to the Smithy of Ferrin in the SW of the town.  Here you can have broken
items repaired but Ferrin also runs a weapons shop.  I cannot recommend the
dagger  sling  available  at  his  shop.   The damage you can do with it is
rather  moderate  compared  to  an  elf bow, good ammunition is limited and
expensive.
Have  a  look a the Swift Stabbers, though.  These are close combat weapons
but  quite  damaging.   They  have  a  +3  magic bonus to weapon effect and
increase speed when worn.  If you decide to buy these, you should keep your
magic  throwing-axes  in  your  backpack in case you need a good long range
weapon.
Ask  Ferrin  about his "MOURNING" and receive a key to the "STORAGE CELLAR"
of the smithy. The entry to the cellar is at [38,23] but there's no need to
go there immediately.


2. Dor Grestin

Rest  at  the  inn  and  leave  Dor Kiredon.  Travelling the Forest Moon is
hazardous,  but  here  is  a  hint that will make it easier for you:  watch
every  step you take closely.  If you have a sharp look at the map you will
notice  badges  of  area that are strangely iridescent.  Do not move
here or you'll get attacked by gizzeks, huge locust like insects.  They are
hard  to  kill,  cast  evil spells and may do great physical damage to your
party.   You  won't  even  receive  a  reasonable amount of experience when
killing these fierce foes.
You  still might get attacked by curse wasps now and then but that can't be
helped at the moment.

Dor  Grestin  has two entries, one at [104,165] and the other at [108,182].
Enter  and  explore the city.  Note the mushrooms running around (!) in Dor
Grestin.   You should have a close look at them and put one of it into your
backpack.   The  curse  wasps don't like the intense smell of the mushrooms
and they will avoid you as long as you own one of them.

Visit  the  home  of  Asrub,  the  healer and talk to him about "MAGIC" and
"HERBS".  A survivor of a Tornak encounter is treated as a "PATIENT" in his
hospital.
Find  Gorban  at  [20,9]  in a bed.  He'll tell you more about the "TORNAK"
creatures.   Especially  notice  the  information  that these beasts use to
close  passages  they  created.   Gorban  also  has  information  about the
experimental  "MINE"  in  Dor  Kiredon  but  it  seems he does not tell you
everything he knows.
At  [14,16]  you  can  find  a  bottle  of All-Healing potion, at [15,23] a
healing potion II.

There is a shop in the centre of the town that offers items from the Forest
Moon's  nature.   As  Asrub told you, there are some herbs that permanently
affect  a  characters abilities.  Sparkling Mushrooms increase a characters
resistance  to  magic,  Fragrant  Herbs raise strength and Glowing Blossoms
boosts speed.

Other items of interest are bladder fruits and tornak eggs.

In  the  SW  corner  of Dor Grestin visit the town's council hall.  Talk to
Leira  and  ask her about "KIRE".  Meet Kire's son Ketnar and ask him about
"DOR  GRESTIN"  and  his  elders "KIRE" and "DORINA".  Show the letter Kire
gave  you  to  Ketnar  and he'll be a little more informative regarding his
mother.
Unfortunately,  something  went wrong badly with the text translation here.
Instead  of  the  somewhat garbled things he says he's supposed to give you
the  information  that contrary to popular belief Dorina is still alive and
lives as a hermit in a "TREE" house.  The tree is located behind a swamp SW
of Dor Grestin and demands the password "SCHNISM" to allow entry.

Before  leaving  the  council  hall  and  Dor  Grestin you should go to the
kitchen  and talk to Drongeb, the cook.  He likes to live in "DOR GRESTIN".
Don't forget to try one of his "PASTRIES".


3. Ferrin's storage cellar

Return  to  Dor  Kiredon  and  find  the storage cellar of Ferrin (Ferrin's
Smithy,  [38,23]).   Open the locked door using the key Ferrin gave you and
enter.
You  will  need  a  pick-axe  in order to solve the secret of Ferrin's lost
daughter.  Don't mind if you don't have one with you, there are some useful
items in the cellar, including a pick-axe.
Here  is  a table of the items you may find in cupboards, chests and crates
here:

    [16, 5]  shovel, rope
    [27, 5]  bottle of Ferrin's Liquor
    [24,24]  pick-axe
    [12, 4]  lock-picks, crowbar
    [ 3,12]  lantern
    [ 7,26]  leather boots, horned helmet

South of [25,28] there is a staircase leading down.  In the cave below find
following items:

    [15,17]  an amber stone.  You should take it with you.
    [ 8,17]  some torches
    [ 7,14]  some ropes

Remember  what  Gorban  told  you about tornaks when you visited him in Dor
Grestin?   At  [14,13] the eastern wall looks strange.  Try to memorize the
wall  texture  here,  there are more places like this.  Use the pick-axe in
front of the strange wall and it opens!
At  [18,5]  there is hole in the ceiling.  It's a little bit hard to see if
you have switched on the ceiling texture in the options menu.  Cast a spell
of levitation or use a rope to ascend to a tornak cave.

Tornaks are horrible creatures that do an average of 85 points of damage in
each  fighting  round.   Watch  your  health  while  fighting them and cast
healing spells in time.
The  good  news  is, at least you'll get some experience points for killing
tornaks.

Use   your  pick-axe  at  [8,7](N),  [14,5](E),  [12,7](S),  [13,7](E)  and
[16,11](S).  The letter in round braces appended to the coordinates denotes
the direction of the wall that is removed by the action.

Fight  more  tornaks  and  a  tornak  female to find a hole in the floor at
[16,16].   Cast  a  spell  of levitation, use a rope or simply jump down to
descend.

You  finally  find  Ferrin's  daughter gaily playing with the Tornaks!  She
seems to have ESP abilities that tames the tornaks and in fact it's not the
little  girl that was kidnapped by the beasts  but happened more likely the
other way 'round!
It  takes  some  sensible  persuasion to make the dwarf child cooperate but
finally she agrees to return with you to her parents.

Talk  to  Ferrin  after  you  are  back  and  he'll reward you with a magic
crossbow  he  made.   This  item  is  very  useful.   It  raises the attack
capabilities  of  the  wielding character and is light enough to be used by
all  character classes, including healers.  It does not need any ammunition
as a further plus.


4. Dorina's Tree

The  tree  is located at [64,237].  Talk to the door and say the magic word
"SCHNISM" to enter.
As  you  already  learned, Dorina is a master of illusion so not everything
you  see in her tree is real.  Be careful though, some of her illusions are
real enough to hurt you badly.

Parts  of her home are infested by gizzeks and in difference to the outside
world  gizzek  queens  may  accompany this plague.  Although the queens are
very  resistant to magic, the "Dissolve Victim" spell worked for me most of
the  time.   You  may  feel this is overkill to handle a mere "bug", but be
warned.   The  queen's  magic  is bad enough but once she decides to attack
using  her  claws  she happily deals out critical hits.  I had to revive my
paladin several times after such fights until I changed tactics to take the
queens out as early as possible by high-level magic.

West  of [20,5] there is an illusionary wall that hides a strangely glowing
flower.   The  blossoms act as switches and this one extinguishes the flame
obstacles south of [14,11].  Don't try to pass the flames without switching
them off or you'll get a glimpse of how a steak feels at a barbeque party.

Around [11,15] find a bladder fruit plantation.

Follow the passage formerly blocked by the flames to find a ladder down.

In  the  floor  below  find  illusionary walls east of [14,19] and [16,19].
They hide another flower switch that removes a wall segment at [14,26].

An  illusionary wall east of [18,23] hide eight flower switches arranged in
this pattern:

                               # # # # # # #
                               #     4   8 #
                               #   2   6   #
                               #     3   7 #
                               |   1   5   #
                               # # # # # # #

To deactivate the reaper plants¹ west of [12,30], switch plants 1, 2, 4, 5,
7 and 8 to orange and leave plants 3 and 6 switched to white.  It's no good
idea  to  come  too  close  to  an active reaper unless you're nature lover
enough to offer a plant your own body as manure.

       ¹ Actually these plants do not have a name in Ambermoon.  There is a
         similar  plant  monster  in the Ultima series RPG's and I borrowed
         the name from there.

As an alternative, you can use the jump spell to skip the reaper plants.

Keep  away  from  the  rectangular  area south of [7,18] and east of [8,25]
unless  you're  in  for some additional fights with gizzeks.  The area is a
trap,  illusionary  trapholes  are  solid  floor and vice versa.  Step on a
hidden  traphole  and  fall down one level, fight some gizzeks and find the
ladder up at [18,15].

At  [3,24]  is  a  ladder  down to Dorina's dwelling place.  Pass the doors
south  of  [7,18]  and east of [8,25] to meet Dorina.  Talk to her and give
her  Kire's  letter.   You will accompany her to Dor Kiredon where Kire and
Dorina are united again at last.

Talk  to Dorina and receive a brooch (+15 spell points, +35 luck).  Talk to
Kire  and  he'll  hand  you  two  keys.  Kire also hints you to ask his son
Ketnar about the ancient ruins that were recently discovered.
One  key  is  for the door of the experimental mine in the NW corner of the
town.  The other one opens the door south of [5,33].  Search the chests and
cupboards  for  valuable  items and take whatever you like.  You should not
forget the amber stones at [6,45] and the potions at [5,66].


5. Ancient Ruins

Travel  to  Dor  Grestin  and  question  Ketnar about "RUINS".  These are a
leftover  of  an  ancient  culture,  probably  gone thousands of years ago.
Their  location is NNW of Dor Grestin, in a very dangerous area.  Have some
ropes  in your backpack before you go there, unless you have the levitation
spell  available.   Think  of  enough  food, about 30 rations per character
should do.  You'll need at least one amber stone, too.

Cross the swamps to [88,67].  The ruins are enclosed by a wood of dangerous
plants  with  nettle  tentacles  and here is the only passage through them.
Work your way west to [66,69] and enter the ruins.

The  ground  floor  features  a closed door east of [13,8].  To open it you
have  to  find the traphole at [12,4].  Fall down to find a strange looking
metal  socket.   Use  an  amber stone here and it activates some mysterious
energy  source.   Suddenly glass orbs at the ceiling provide some light and
the  door in the ground floor is open now.  

Use  a rope or cast a levitation spell to escape the pit you're in.  Switch
off ceiling  and  floor  textures  if  you  have difficulties to locate the
opening at [4,6].

Pass the now open door & climb the hole in the ceiling. Explore the area on
the roof of the building and note the wall ornaments consisting of coloured
triangles  and  circles.   Descend back and enter the strange lift platform
down at [16,10].

Explore  the  area  and find more of the ornaments.  There are two doors at
[21,9]  and  [22,22]  that  ask  a number when you touch them.  Next to the
doors  is  a  sign  with  more  symbols of the kind you found on the larger
ornaments.   At  [4,14] you discover the remains of poor Dreblin, the scout
sent  by  Ketnar.   He  has  written down his observations in the ruins and
thinks  the ornaments at some walls and signs next to the doors represent a
complex number system.

You  probably  already  found  out  yourself  that  the  colours  represent
numerical  values.   To  decipher  a sign, note the triangles and add their
values.   Then  add  the  values  of  the  circles and you get two numbers.
Multiply the numbers and you get the final result.
The ornaments are example calculations using this system.  Colours have the
following meaning:

                           Colour          Value

                           Red                1
                           Orange            10
                           Light Yellow      50
                           Light Blue       100

Thus,  the  door sign at [21,9] decodes to 1 + 10 + 50 = 61 and this is the
number  you  have  to  enter to open the door.  Find another amber stone at
[18,6] in the room behind.
The  sign  at  [22,22] is ( 1 + 1 ) × ( 1 + 10 ) = 2 × 11 = 22.  At [20,20]
you'll  see another socket.  Use an amber stone here to activate a teleport
at [17,21].  It will beam you to the surface in front of the ruins.

On  your  way  back to Dor Kiredon you may want to visit [90,89], [115,137]
and [112,134].  Here are Blue Leaves you may take with you.


6. The Journey to the Middle of a Moon

You  are  now ready to explore the experimental mine of Dor Kiredon.  Enter
using  the mine key you got from Kire.  There is a guardian dwarf here, his
name is Gadrin.  Talk to him and get a final warning of "TORNAK" beasts and
he'll raise the "GATE" for you.

Fortunately  there  is  a  way  to reduce fiddlin' around with Tornaks to a
minimum.   Find  the  ladder  at  [28,17]  and climb down to level 2 of the
mines.   At [19,15] you can kill a Female Tornak guarding a Tornak egg.  As
long as you have the egg in your backpack, no Tornak will attack you.

Climb  up  again  to  level 1, take the amber stone at [20,14] and find the
ladder down at [28,4] to another part of mine floor 2.

If  you  use your pickaxe at [9,3] and [10,3] to dig a tunnel east, you can
find  some  more amber.  Ignore the ladders at [3,18] and [5,18], they lead
to dead ends only.  Descend to level three at [7,18].

Work  your way to the south east until you reach an area with masonry walls
and  a closed door at [20,17] leading east.  To open the door, dig a tunnel
from  [20,15](N),  [20,14](N),  [20,13](E) and [21,13](E) and reveal a cave
with an amber socket.  Use an amber stone at [25,7] to supply energy to the
door at [20,17].
Now  use  the  pickaxe at [19,19](E) and find the door code - a yellow, two
orange and a red triangle.  Add 50 + 10 + 10 + 1 = 71, enter this number at
the  door's  code  lock  and gain access to a part of the cave that was not
explored by dwarfs yet.
Jump through a hole in the floor at [26,16] to enter an antique area.

At  [6,7] there is a closed door.  To open it, use your pickaxe at [5,7](E)
and  use an amber at the [7,10] socket.  Now the door is open, but a deadly
energy  barrier  blocks  the  way.  Dig through at [4,4](E) and find a wall
switch [5,4] that deactivates the force field.

At  [11,9]  open  the door using the code ( 1 + 10 ) × ( 1 + 10 ) = 121 and
get  attacked  by  a group of guardians, levitating robots that are handled
with ease.
Find  the  wall  switch  at  [12,13]  to  get rid of another force field at
[14,7].   Use  the  pickaxe  to  dig  a  tunnel:   [17,15](N), [17,14]E and
[18,14](N).   Set  into  the  wall  at  [18,10](E)  is a safe that holds an
ancient book written in an unknown language.
I've  never found out what to do with the book - I think it was intended as
a hook to the never written third part of the Amber Trilogy.

At [4,17] find a lift down to ancient area level 2.

This  level  is  dangerous!  There are erratically moving energy fields all
over  the  place  that make movement a difficult real-time task.  Save your
game before you proceed!

Follow  the corridor north and evade the moving energy fields.  At [7,5] is
a  wall  switch  that  opens the door next to it.  When you are through the
door, you're safe for a moment so take the opportunity to save again.

To  the  east  of [8,11] you'll find a circular corridor with energy fields
moving  anti-clockwise.   You'll  have  to filter in between two fields and
follow  the corridor to flip eight wall switches at [10,13](E), [13,15](N),
[16,15](N),  [18,12](W),  [18,9](W),  [15,7](S),  [17,7](S) and [10,10](E).
These will open the door at [12,18].
This  is  a  real-time task, too.  It's easy to lose concentration here and
end up "well done" in a glimpse, so it's a good idea to save your game to a
dedicated slot whenever you reached a corner safely.

On  your  tour around the corridor you will notice a door at [17,7](N) that
opens on code ( 50 + 1 ) × 10 = 510.
The  room  behind  features a non-working teleport [11,4] and four safes at
[18,3],  [16,3],  [14,3]  and  [12,3].   The one at [16,3] holds an ancient
object  that  might come in handy in fights.  It is a fireball-thrower that
all characters may use.

After  you  flipped all eight switches in the circular corridor the door at
[12,18]  is  open and you may use the lift at [18,18] to descend to ancient
area level 3.

The  room  you  are  in  now  features  wall  switches  at  [28,18](W)  and
[28,16](W).  The one at [28,18] activates a teleporter, but flip the one at
[28,18](W), too!  This switch selects teleport coordinates and if you leave
it set as you find it you get transported into a hornet's nest of guardians
and guardian chiefs.
Guardian chiefs are bigger than the guardian robots you already encountered
and  they  are much more dangerous!  Of course, if you're feeling tough you
may head on and give it a try - be prepared for a hard fight.  You probably
won't  survive  unless  you  make  use  of  quite  some healing/spell point
potions.
There is a reward if you choose to fight, though.  Pick up a second ancient
object  (fireball  thrower)  at  [24,4]  and use the teleport at [21,11] to
return to the level 3 entry room at coordinates [31,17].

The  other setting of the [28,16] switch directs the teleporter to [21,16].
Have  a  look  at  the  lamp hanging from the ceiling!  There seems to be a
loose contact somewhere; the lamp lights at the start of each hour and goes
off again after five minutes.
The  teleport in this room transports you back to [31,17] when the light is
off and to [9,18] when it's on.

The  area  around  [9,18]  is  tricky  but  allows  to  avoid fighting more
guardians  if  handled  the right way.  There is a teleport at [11,15] that
brings you back to [31,17] later.

Go  to [8,3](N) and flip the wall switch there.  It will deactivate a force
field at [8,4](W) and release a group of guardian robots.  Run to [16,5](S)
and  flip  the  switch  here.   Look  to the west and notice the two energy
barriers that got erected by this switch.
The robots followed you and probably are shut out from the room between the
two barriers now.  Switch the barriers off for a moment again, wait for the
guardians to enter the room and trap them by activating the barriers again.
Leave the place through the teleport at [17,3] to [9,18].
You now can enter the room at [8,4](W) and find another switch at [3,6](W).
It will deactivate the barrier at [8,9](W).
Repeat the above procedure by running to [16,9](S), trapping a second group
of guardians and entering the teleport at [17,7] back to [9,18].

Another  bug  makes the trick unnecessary for the third group of guardians.
Simply  use the switch at [3,10](W) to remove the force field at [8,13](W),
go  there and enter without fear.  The guardians here are placed on a small
pile  of  stones  and are unable to move.  As long as you stay out of reach
they cannot attack you.
Thus,  you  can  safely ignore the switch at [16,13](S) and the teleport at
[17,11].

Use  the  switch at [3,14] to remove the last barrier at [8,17](W).  Run to
[16,18](S)  and  look  whether  the guardians are following you.  Sometimes
they get stuck at a corner and you have to close in on them, make them free
themselves and lure them between the force fields.  The teleport at [17,15]
brings you back to [9,18].

Of  course,  if  you  are  in  the right mood you can also ignore the whole
feeble  encagement  artistry  and  simply  kill  the  guardians.   A little
inelegant, but still an effective method to get rid of them.

Your way is now free to a lift at [4,17] down to ancient area level 4.

There  is a door at [9,17](W) that is coded by a blue triangle (100).  Open
the door and enter.
There  are  three strongboxes in the wall to the south.  They hold coloured
carved  discs, open [14,18](S) for yellow discs, [16,18](S) for green disks
and  [18,18](S)  for  blue disks.  You will need a single yellow disc only.
Be careful, the containers are booby trapped neatly!
The teleport at [16,16] does nothing.

Leave  the  room  and find the next chamber to the south.  There is strange
machinery  in  here.  Use the yellow carved disc at [13,12], an amber stone
at  [15,12]  and  pick  up the yellow Navstone at [16,10] you just created!
This machine is the key for your return to Lyramion and to reach Morag, the
home of the lizard mage you encountered in the Temple of the Brotherhood.

Feel  free to make more Navstones, blue and green ones as many as you like.
To  finish  the  Ambermoon  adventure  a single yellow Navstone is the only
one required.

Still,  there  is  a final surprise in the ancient installment.  Search the
skeleton in a third room to the south at [12,4] to find a red carved globe.
There  is another machine object in this room at [16,7].  Use the red globe
here to activate a teleport at [16,5].
Enter the teleport for an...


7. Interlude in Gadlon

You  find  yourself  in  a  strange  surrounding, titled "Gadlon Cellar 2".
Explore  the  area  yourself,  find  some  totally  ordinary  chests behind
ordinary  wooden  doors, guarded by ordinary green energieglobes.  They are
not  very  dangerous,  fighting them is a picnic compared to the melees you
had with the guardians before.
Open the door at [9,11](S) to find a staircase up.

Above,  you enter Cellar 1, a place just as boring as Cellar 2.  Behind the
door at [20,12](E) is another staircase up to the ground floor.

Meet  Aderin,  a young wizard apprentice and get to know more about Gadlon,
the  "SCHOOL"  of "MAGIC".  A more experienced looking wizard named Bellard
may  be  questioned  about  the  "TRAINING ROOMS" down in the cellar and he
hints you to meet "RINAKLES" in the top floor of Gadlon.

Follow  his  advice  and  ascend  to the first floor using the staircase at
[13,11] and next to floor two around the corner at [11,13].

Follow the corridor and, finally, meet Rinakles in his room behind the door
[4,9](S).   Note  the  inactive  teleport  at [3,12].  Talk to Rinakles and
learn  more  about  "GADLON" and "MAGIC".  Also, ask Rinakles if he knows a
way  "HOME"  for  you.  He'll activate his teleporter and if you use it you
will  get  beamed  back  to  the  Forest  Moon, just to the place where you
started this weird trip.
In case you did not notice yet, you just have returned from another fantasy
story, "Dragon Flight".

This  ancient  technology  of  travelling  to parallel universes might help
Valdyn to return to his own world later on.


8. There And Back Again

You're  done  with the secrets of the Ancient Area now.  Work your way back
up  to  the dwarf mines' entry where faithful Gadrin still guards the door.
Leave  the  mine  and  Dor  Kiredon and enter the air ship.  Use the yellow
Navstone at [6,8].  The air ship will start once more and fly to Morag, the
second moon of Lyramion.



VI. Morag
---------


1. S'angrila I

Leave  the  Airship and you're in a hangar, similar to the one in Temple of
the  Brotherhood.   When  you  go to the exit and pass [19,8], your magical
disk  explodes  in your backpack, so it might be a good idea to leave it in
the airship.  There's no need for this item any more, but the explosion may
hurt injure some of your party members.

Go  past [19,16] and you are magically transported into a prison cell where
you  meet  S'riel,  a former member of the Morag high council.  He'll teach
you  Moranian  language and  puts  a  spell on you that makes you look like
Moranian  people.  Face it, you've never been much of a beauty but now with
that  icky slimy scale skin a half-blind toad might drop dead of disgust on
your sight.
He  informs  you  about  background to the machine that was built below the
Temple  of the Brotherhood and that you need a harp with crystal strings to
remove  the  crystal wall that protects it.  You'll have to get the strings
from  the  Morag  council  members.  Unfortunately the councillors won't be
deceived by your disguise.  Moreover, they know you're coming...
Also  note what he says about water, an extremely scarce and precious stuff
on Morag.

He  then  teleports you to his own palace, where you receive a warm welcome
by S'arin, one of the councillors.


2. The palace of S'riel

Fight  the  magic  guards  that  attack  you.   Note,  your  magic is badly
restricted  on  Morag.   Since  there's  not  much  water  here, all spells
involving  water  and ice don't work on the whole planet.  That means, your
most  powerful  resource in fights fails you and you have to go back to the
good ol' slaughtering craftsmanship again.
The  automap  function  is disabled in the palaces and the magic view spell
also  won't  work.   I  think  this  was no good idea, it makes solving the
palace dungeons more difficult but no more challenging at all.

Thus, I'll give you maps of the palaces:


                                       1
                   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0        Legend:
                 0
                 1                                # wall
                 2         # # # # #              . floor
                 3         # . . . #              + door
                 4     # # # . S . # # #
                 5     # b # . . . # a #          a, b chest
                 6     # . # # + # # . #
                 7     # . . # . # . . #          S start
                 8     # # . . . . . # #
                 9       # # # . # # #
                10           # + #


Collect the contents of the two chests.  Chest "a" holds a Morag Robe and a
Morag  Dart,  chest  "b"  contains  a map, a key to the S'orel palace, your
first crystal string and some Navstones.  Take all items with you and leave
the palace.


3. S'angrila II

Use  the  map  to  get  coordinates  of  many  important  places  on Morag.
S'angrila  is  at [22,133], this should be your next aim.  While travelling
the  Morag  surface, avoid the shadows of buildings - Morag Lizards and the
dangerous Sand Lizards hunt here for imprudent adventurers.  Sometimes even 
Morag Dragons lurk in the shadows.

Explore S'angrila and visit the merchant.  He has very interesting items in
stock, e.g.  Morag Darts to complete your weaponry.  By now you should have
five  of  these,  and with Ferrin's crossbow this totals six excellent long
range  weapons.   You can sell tinkertoys like magic throwing axes now; the
Morag darts are better and lighter.
Do  not  forget  to buy the water bottle; remember its  value on this dried
out moon.

At  the  inn  look  for  S'rep  and note his mother sells riding lizards at
[78,136].   Resting  here is very expensive, so you might prefer resting in
the desert outside the town.

In the south east side of the town is the prison.  When you enter here have
a  look  at  the  circular  sandpit.   A Morag lizard lives here that wears
collar  with key fitted to it.  Kill her and you may open he cell door with
it.

Leave  S'angrila, go to the riding lizard shop at [78,136] and buy one from
S'reli.  It'll make travelling the deserts faster.  Now ride to [18,13] and
you'll  see  another habitation tower.  Meet S'krel inside and talk to him.
He  is  in dire need of water and if you present him your bottle he will be
very  grateful.   You'll  receive an incredible experience points boost and
also,  he  will  give you a yellow carved orb, very similar to the one that
sent you on the strange journey to Gadlon.
Valdyn  may  get  a  chance to use it for his voyage home once you are done
with the evil Morg councillors.  (Note:  I went back to the forest moon and
tried the orb at the universe teleporter, but it did nothing.)

Now you are ready to plunder the palace of S'orel, the councillor you dealt
within the Temple of the Brotherhood.


4. The palace of S'orel

Ride to [33,179] and enter the building.


                                     1 1 1 1 1
                 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4    Legend:
               0
               1           # # # # # # #          # wall
               2       # # # . . . . d #          . floor
               3       # c + . . . . . # # #      + door
               4     # # . # # # # # # # a # #    - illusionary wall
               5     # . . # . . b . . # . . #
               6     # . T # . . . . . # # - #    a wall switch
               7     # . . # . . . . . # . . #    b, d chest
               8     # T . # . . . . . # . . #
               9     # . . # . . . . . # # + #    T spear traps
              10     # . T # . # . # . # . . #
              11     # . . # # # + # # # . . #
              12     # # . . # . . . # . . # #
              13       # # . . . S . . . # #      S start
              14         # # # # + # # # #


Behind  the  illusionary  wall  at  [7,13](N)  find  a wall switch "a" that
deactivates  the  traps  T at [4,10], [3,8] and [4,6].  Chest "b" holds the
finest  in  armour  and short range weapons available in the game:  a Morag
sword, Morag shield and Morag armour.
The  door  at  "c"  is opened by the S'orel palace key.  Chest "d" has some
magic scrolls, the key to councillor S'arin's palace and the second crystal
string.


5. The palace of S'arin

Enter the palace of S'arin at [87,26].


                                  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
              0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8   Legend:
            0  
            1             # # # # # # # # #           # wall
            2         # # # . . + i . . . # # #       . floor
            3       # # g # . . # # # # . # e # #     + door
            4       # . . # . . # . . . . # . . #     |, - illusionary wall
            5     # # - # # # # # f # # # # # - # #   × spinner plates
            6     # . . . # . . . . . . . # . . . #
            7     # . . . + . # × # × # . + . . . #   a, f  riddle mouth
            8     # . . . # . . . . . . . # . . . #   b, c, d, e, g, h
            9     # × . # # # # # . # # # # # . × #         crystal balls
           10     # . . | h # c # a # b # d | . . #
           11     # . × # # # - # . # - # # # × . #
           12     # . . . # . . . . . . . # . . . #
           13     # # . . # . . × . × . . # . . # #   S start
           14       # # # # . . . . . . . # # # #
           16         # b | . . × . × . . | c #
           17         # # # . . . S . . . # # #
           18             # # # # + # # # #


There  is a riddle mouth at "a" that asks the sum of the numbers visible on
the four crystal balls at "b" and "c".
The answer to the riddle is 46 + 46 + 75 + 75 = 242.

There  are  more  crystal balls at "d" (67), "e" (19), "g" (1) and "h" (15)
and another riddlemouth at "f" that also asks a number.  The correct answer
here is 301. "What is all together when there are balls below a line and 
columns after a cross"  

Answer = all together / balls X columns

344 (The sum of the numbers visible on the eight crystal balls)
8 (sum of all crystal balls) 
7 (sum of all Columns, 5 in the first room, 1 in leftmost and 1 in the 
rightmost room)

The answer is:

((46 + 46 + 75 + 75 + 67 + 19 + 1 + 15) / 8)* 7 = 301

Use the S'orel palace key to open the door west of "i" and fight S'arin and
two  guards.   When you are victorious, collect the key to S'endar's palace
and crystal string number three.


6. The palace of S'endar

This palace is located at [175,127].


                            1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2
        0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4   Legend:
      0
      1                                                     # wall
      2                 # # # # # # # # # # #               . floor
      3             # # # . . . . . . . . . # # #           + door
      4           # # . . . . . # . # . . . g . # #         | illusionary wall
      5         # # . . # # # # # P # # # # # . . # #
      6       # # . . . # . . | . . . # # # # . . . # #     P pendulum trap
      7       # . . . . # f . # . . . # l . | . # . . #     T spear trap
      8     # # # + # # # # # # # P # # # # # . # . . # #   Q metal disk trap
      9     # . . . T . # . h # . . . | . . # . # . . . #
     10     # . T . T . + . . # . . . # . e # . # . # . #   a, b, c, d, e, f
     11     # T . . . . # # # # # P # # # # # . # . # . #      levers
     12     # . . T . . # . . | . . . # # # # . # . # . #
     13     # T . . T T # d . # . . . # m . | Q # . # . #   g riddle mouth
     14     # . T . . . # # # # # P # # # # # . # . # . #   h, k chest
     15     # . T . T . + . . # . . . | . . # . # . # . #   i crystal ball
     16     # . . . T . # . k # . . . # . c # . # Q # Q #
     17     # T . . . T # # # # # P # # # # # # # o # # #   l, m, n
     18     # # # + # # # . . | . . . # # # # . . . . #       wall switch
     19       # . . . . # b . # . . . # n . | . . . . #
     20       # # . . . # # # # # P # # # # # . . . # #     o locked door
     21         # # . . # . . # . . . | . . # . . # #
     22           # # . + . i # . . . # . . # . # #         S start
     23             # # # . . # . S . # . a # # #
     24                 # # # # # + # # # # #


Find the illusionary wall that hide the levers "a" to "f", each deactivates
the  next  pendulum  trap  blocking the way north.  Evade the spear traps T
south  of  [5,8]  and  find  a  chest with Navstones at "h", a crystal ball
showing the word "MORAG" at "i" and a chest with some equipment at "k".

There  is  a strange game bug with the spear traps.  If you get hit by one,
you may plunder the chest at h from the place you are standing.

Return  north  and  go  to  the  riddle  mouth  at "g", asking the password
"MORAG".

The  places  marked  Q are deadly traps.  Whirling, razor sharp edged metal
disks,  hardly visible to the party wait to decapitate all but the shortest
party  member.   Use  the  wall switches "l" and "m" to remove the traps at
[19,13] and [21,13].

Use  the  S'endar  palace key at o to open the door south and fight S'endar
himself.   He  does  not  need the S'trog palace key and his crystal string
anymore once he's a goner.
There  is another wall switch at n that deactivates the trap at [23,16] but
you don't have to bother with this trap anyway.


7. The palace of S'trog

Next key, next palace at [15,83].


                                   1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
               0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8  Legend
             0
             1                                        # wall
             2             # # # # # # # # #          . floor
             3         # # # . . . + . . . # # #      + door
             4       # # . . . . # # # . . . . # #    |, - illusionary wall
             5       # . . . . . # T # . . . . . #    × spinner plate
             6     # # . # # . . # - # . . . . . # #
             7     # T c T # # # # . # # # # . . . #  P pendulum trap
             8     # c c c # . | . × . | T # . . . #  T spear trap
             9     # c T c # . # # . # # # # # # . #
            10     # c c c # . . # - # . . . . # . #  a, c illusionary trap
            11     # T c T # # . # . # . . . . d . #  b lever
            12     # . . . . . . # P # . . . . # . #  d locked door
            13     # # # # # # # # . # # # # # # # #
            14       # . . + . a . . . P . + . . #    S start
            15       # . . # # # # . # # # # . . #
            16       # # . . . . # . # . . . . # #
            17         # # # . b # S # . . # # #
            18             # # # # + # # # #


This  is one of the places in the game I don't like at all because of a bad
design.   The pendulum trap at "a" is illusionary, the two others north and
east  of  the  crossing  are  real.  The "clairvoyance" spell does not help
here, you must make a random decision and get punished if it's wrong.

Find the lever at "b" that deactivates the two real pendulum traps.

A  very  similar situation awaits at the spinner plate at [10,8].  You have
to decide which direction to go from here and may easily run into the spear
traps  behind illusionary walls north or east.  The correct continuation is
to  the  west  and  again  you have to guess what to do.  The traps "c" are
illusionary, but there are five real ones between the illusions.

At  "d"  use  the S'trog palace key to open the door.  Fight S'trog and his
pet dragons, acquire the S'kat palace key and another crystal string.

Do  you  notice  a certain crude-obvious pattern?  Guess what, it stays the
same  up  to  the  last  palace  -  run  in,  solve  some badly designed or
ridiculously stupid "riddles", fight a councillor for a string and the next
palace key.  Repeat until bored to death.
It's  a  little  sad that the quality of this game breaks down that much in
the  Morag  part  of  the  game, even more after the brilliant and detailed
design of the Forest Moon.


8. The palace of S'kat

This palace is located at [127,182].


                                       1 1 1 1 1
                   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4  Legend
                 0
                 1                                # wall
                 2         # # # # # # # # #      . floor
                 3       # # a # . d . # a # #    + door
                 4     # # . . # . . . # . . # #
                 5     # . . . # . . . # . . . #  a lever
                 6     # . . . # # # c # . . . #  b removable wall
                 7     # # + # # # . . # # + # #  c locked door
                 8     # . . . # # b # # . . . #  d chest
                 9     # . . . . . . . . . . . #
                10     # # + # # # . # # # + # #
                11     # . . . # . . . # . . . #
                12     # # . . # . . . # . . # #
                13       # # a # . S . # a # #
                14         # # # # + # # # #


There  are  four  levers  in the places marked "a".  You will have to fight
Ips,  Minotaurs,  Fire giants and Fire Dragons to get to them.  The wall at
"b" will vanish then.

Open  the  locked  door  at  "c"  using  the S'kat palace key, fight S'kat.
You'll  find  (surprise,  surprise!)  a  crystal  string and the key to the
palace of S'lorwin.

The chest at "d" holds more navstones and a parchment.


9. The palace of S'lorwin

Bring the parchment you found to [184,189] and show it to S'Goldar, builder
of  Sand boats.  It's a receipt for a transportation device that allows you
to easily cross the moat.

The  palace  is  located  on  an  island at [127,82].


                                       1 1 1 1 1
                   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4  Legend
                 0
                 1                                # wall
                 2         # # # # # # # # #      . floor
                 3       # # . . . b . . . # #    + door
                 4       # . . . . . . . . . #
                 5     # # # . . . . . . . # # #  a locked door
                 6     # . # # # # + # # # # . #  b S'lorwin
                 7     # . . . . . . . . . . . #
                 8     # . # # # # # # # # # . #  S start
                 9     # . . . . . . . . . . . #
                10     # . # # # # a # # # # . #
                11     # # # . . . . . . . # # #
                12       # . . . . . . . . . #
                13       # # . . . S . . . # #
                14         # # # # + # # # #


As  you  can  see  from  the  map,  this  place  is  very simple built.  No
illusions,  stupid  riddles  or traps.  Simply unlock the door at "a" using
the  S'lorwin  palace  key, wade through a sea of Morag dragon blood to the
last remaining Morag councillor at "b" and fight him.  S'lorwin is the only
highlight  of  the  palace.   He  is  a  tough magician and is able to cast
"dissolve victim" spells.
This  may  become  a  nasty  surprise  to  you,  so I recommend a modified,
whole-party  dance-of-death  tactics.   Simply  have all your party members
move  during  the  first  few fighting rounds until his magic is exhausted.
After this, he and his two lizards are troll fodder.

Collect the seventh crystal string and leave the palace.

Head for S'angrila [22,133], find the hangar and use a blue Navstone at the
leftmost metal orb in the airship.


VII. Welcome To The Machine
---------------------------

Back  on Lyramion, leave the Temple of the Brotherhood and call an eagle to
bring  you  to  Illien [376,277].  Visit Matthias the music master.  Buy an
elven  harp  if  you  do not already own one and hand him the seven crystal
strings.

He  will fit the strings to the harp and give it back to you.  The harp now
can  cast "dissolve victim" spells when used in combat - unfortunately it's
too late to be of much use for you.

Fly back to the Temple of the Brotherhood and stand in front of the crystal
wall  in the entry hall.  Use the crystal harp and the sounds will make the
wall  crumble.  Maybe it's a good idea to have signed an insurance contract
before  you  give concerts in St. Paul's Cathedral or in front of the White
House.

Follow  the  passage and fight some more Magic Guardians and Morag Dragons.
Remember,  this  is  your home planet and there are no more restrictions in
the use of certain combat spells.

Finally,  face  the  Morag  Machine  and  fight  the final skirmish in this
battle.  It may take a while to bring the machine down to its  knees (yes -
it owns legs and knees!) because it has around 2800 hit points.  Watch your
own health, cast healing spells now and then and killing it is a picnic.

The  entrance  will be buried by a cave-in but a new exit opens in the wall
behind  the  Morag  Machine's  remains.   Take it and watch the end of game
sequence.

CONGRATULATIONS!  You have made your way through the Ambermoon adventure.




                                 ========
                                 APPENDIX
                                 ========



I. Bestiarium
--------------

This  table  lists the stats for all monsters in Ambermoon.  The experience
value in the last column is equally shared between the characters surviving
the fight.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lizards              STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Pond Lizard         25  20  32  75  18  15  50   0  20  10  99   0   0   0   0    8    0   8   1  1    0   2    10
  Desert Lizard       75  35  45  80  50  50  50   0  55  45   0   0   0   0  15   45   15  17   1  8    0   2    75
  Fire Dragon         90  70  65  50  76  25  50   5  76  60   0   2   0   0  99  130  130  20   2  8  500   0  1000
  Mine Lizard         88  57  83  65  97  17  58   0  85  60   0   0   0   0  50  140   70  40   2 10    0   0   600
  Morag Lizard        78  27  76  87  52  18  34   0  87  64   0   0   0   0  50  350  150  50   2 20    0   0   500
  Sand Lizard         63  64  81  78  33  10  26  10  85  55   0   0   0   0  95  450  250  55   2 14    0   0  1000
  Morag Dragon        97  81  63  53  89  34  65   0  90  80   0   2   0   0  60  500  350  65   1 15  856   0  1440
  Sansrie³            82  92  86  45  68  54  68  20  95  80   0   0   0   0  80  540  350  35   5 10 2489   0 15350 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arachnids            STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Big Spider          25  20  90  90  15  10  50   0  40  15   0   0   0   0   0   10    0   7   1  2    0   0    20
  Poison Spider       20  35  95  95  25  12  55   0  60  20   0   0   0   0  35   20   30  11   1  3    0   0    40
  Gigantula           50  75  60  20  75  50  50   5  70  30   0   1   0   0  99   35   35  18   1  5    0   0   260
  Mine Spider         63  51  29  51  27   2  62   0  80  70   0   0   0   0  90  100   90  50   2  8    0   0   400
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Undeads              STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Skeleton            50  25  35  15  25   5  50   0  55  40   0   0   0   0  75   14   10  11   1  6   25   0    30
  Zombie              55  30  40  19  30   5  50   0  60  45   0   0   0   0  99   18   15  11   1  7   30   0    40
  Ghoul               50  25  50  40  50   5  30   0  70  60   0   0   0   0  80   60   30  20   1  8    0   0   100
  Banshee             65  50  63  50  36   5  35   0  90  70   0   1   0   0  99  100   90  50   1 10    0   0   120
  Lich Lord           85  90  50  48  35  10  50  10  35  35   0   0   0  99  99   90   70  26   1  7    0   0   750
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Demons               STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Imp                 29  26  62  38  90  72  62  75  99   5   0   0   0   0  99   75   70  20   1  5    0   0   200
  Gargoyle            25  77  59  53  36  20  50   0  75  15   0   0   0   0  99  130  130  25   1  8    0   0   225
  Minor Demon         43  15  28  22  73   9  43   0  85  10   0   0   0   0  50  150   70  45   1  5    0   0   650
  Luminor I²          95  80  65  70  78  50  50  10  90  68   0   3   0   0  99  800  750  40   2 12 2987   0  3000
  Luminor II          95  80  65  70  78  50  50  10  90  68   0   3   0   0  99  600  600  40   2 12 2987   0  3000
  Luminor III         95  80  65  70  78  50  50  10  90  68   0   3   0   0  99  400  450  40   2 12 2987   0  3000
  Luminor IV          95  80  65  70  78  50  50  10  90  68   0   3   0   0  99  200  300  40   2 12 2987   0  3000
  Luminor V           95  80  65  70  78  50  50  10  90  68   0   3   0   0  99  100  150  30   2 10 2987   0  3000
  Thornahuun          92  93  84  79  85  27  50  15  92  85   0   1   0   0  75  792  580  80   1 12    0   0  7200
  Gurdian Demon¹     *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** **** ****  **   1 ** ****  ** *****
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humans               STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Bandit              40  45  50  18  35  30  50   0  42  25   0   0   0   0   0    9    0   8   1  5   55   3    45
  Bandit Chief        45  50  50  50  25  50  50   0  40  40   0   1   0   0   0   50    0  26   1  9  250   2   200
  Nagier              25  50  20  15  10  50  50   0  50  45  95   5  75   0   0  120    0  23   2 12 1000   4  1000
  Gordon              20  50  35  35  30  15  30   0  35  15   0   0   0   0  80   35   42  16   1  5  158   2   120
  Warrior             29  15  33  19  33   2  50   0  77  36  44   0   8   0   0  160    0  35   3 20  249   8   140
  Nera                38  69  55  60  38  50  50  10  90  68   0   0   0  95  90  210  660 100   3 10    0   0  8000
  Drek the Mage       35  32  41  45  31  24  25   0  30   5  81   0   0  26  94  110  165  18   2 12  684   6  2000
  Kay (The Beast)     76  80  62  95  85  10  55   0  86  65   0   1   0   0  85  350  200  40   3 15    0   0  7500
  Tar (Dark Mage)     45  50  38  44  37  45  38   0  35  35   5   0   0  99  99  300  800  30   2 30    0   0  5000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Morag Councillors    STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  S'orel              31  71  58  45  32  10  36   5  35  35   0   0   0  70  70  310  825  20   4 11    0   0  1500
  S'arin              35  82  59  77  33  12  45  10  35  35   0   0   0  80  80  300  500  30   4 26    0   9  1500
  S'endar             16  88  50  45  23  11  43  15  35  35   0   0   0  83  85  300  550  30   4 27 1500  11  4000
  S'trog              25  57  74  64  16   6  29  20  35  35   0   0   0  90  85  330  750  30   4 27 2354  12  4500
  S'kat               17  92  30  75  38  11  31  25  35  35   0   0   0  90  90  420  850  30   5 27 1000  22  5000
  S'lorwin            10  95  28  20  28  10  50  30  35  35   0   0   0  99  99  540  600  30   7 26  999  11 10000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Giants               STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Reg Hill Giant      92  50  50  50  90  15  60   0  90  20   0   0   0   0  99  180  140  28   2  9  957  38   500
  Fire Giant          92  20  35  30  90  16  50  10  65   5   0   1   0   0  99  120  100  26   1  8  289   0   600
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Golems               STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Stone Golem         80   5  25  20  33   5   5   0  70  50   0   0   0   0  90   85   25  22   2  7    0   0   200
  Granite Golem       85  10  30  30  95   5  50   5  85  60   0   1   0   0  99  100   45  28   2  5    0   0   500
  Guardian Golem      80  15  52  48  66  25  50  20  90  40   0   0   0   0  50  350  150  50   1 10    0   0  1200
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Insects              STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Curse Wasp          70  40   0  93  55   0  20  30  75  20   0   0   0   0  85  150   50  65   2 20    0   0    15
  Gizzek              65  50  50  80  50   0  10  10  65  40   0   0   0   0  80   85   30  50   3 25    0   0    20
  Gizzek Queen        80  75  50  90  65   0  20  50  85  80   0   2   0   0  99  400   80  65   3 28    0   0   500
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mystic               STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Energieglobe        50  60   3  70  50   1  50  25  84  45  79   1  80   0  80   80   95  10   1  8    0   0   120
  Guardian            80  25   0  75   0   0   0   0  85  15   0   1   0   0  99  185   55  65   2 18    0   0   250
  Guardian Chief      99  75   0  90   0   0   0  30  95  30   0   0   0   0  99  550  100  82   2 25    0   0   800
  Magic Guard         77  64  75  40  86  61  65  25  85  70   0   4   0   0   0  290    0  57   3 15    0   0  1000
  Morag Machine       95  90  40  35  85   1  50  20  90  85   0   3   0   0  90 2800 **** 240   1 25    0   0 32000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other                STR INT DEX SPE STA CHA LUC A-M Att Par Swi Cri Sea R-M U-M  H-P  S-P  WP APR AC Gold Rat   Exp
  Orc                 75  45  55  40  70  10   3   0  65  40   0   0   0   0   0   50    0  16   2  7   85   2    80
  Orc Chief           80  35  45  45  80  10  40   0  76  50   0   0   0   0   0   95    0  21   1  9  245   0   120
  Minotaur            70  12  46  88  60  50  50   5  90  70   0   0   0   0  50  220  100  50   2 12  421   2   525
  Tornak              70  20   0  75  80   0  20  10  80  20   0   0   0   0   0  285    0  85   2 18    0   0   400
  Female Tornak       95  85   0  86  85   0  10  10  90  30   0   0   0   0   0  650    0  85   2 24    0   0     0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

¹ The guardian demon is invincible and immune to magic.  There is no way to estimate it's power.
² The power of Luminor depends on the size of his life flame.
³ Sansrie usually has a human body but fights as a five-headed hydra.



II. What's Where in Ambermoon, A Sightseeing Guide
--------------------------------------------------

This section lists the surface locations of all places you can visit.


  A. Lyramion

     Cities:

        Burnville                   [530,594]
        Gemstone                    [319,759]
        Gnome City                  [270,559]
        Illien                      [376,277]
        Newlake                     [348,352]
        Snakesign                   [442,697]
        Spannenberg City            [584,478]


     Dungeons/Temples/Towers/Dwellings:

        Liche Lord Crypt            [542,327]
        Alkem's Tower               [521,328]
        Lebab's Tower               [438,562]
        Hill Caves                  [462,565]; [441,557]; [413,561]; [425,576]
        Temple of Gala              [675,392]
        Temple of The Brotherhood   [444,398]
        Temple of Sansrie           [431,745]
        Orc Cave                    [534,438]; [539,438]
        Sylph Cave                  [538,466]
        Donner's Mine               [252,713]; [223,717]
        Old Dwarf Mine              [524,433]
        Cave of The Beast           [222,542]
        Nera's hut                  [283,519]; [272,536]
        Your Home                   [626,461]
        Bandit's Hideout            [627,411]
        Luminor's Tower             [515,655]
        Burnville Tunnel            [541,545]; [559,538]
        Bolgar Tunnel               [581,657]; [545,649]
        Sansrie Tunnel              [415,709]; [413,722]
        Hut of Norel                [174,679]
        Godsbane Castle             [404,77]


     Wind Gates:

        [513,168]   [278,365]   [612,388]   [564,662]
        [398, 25]   [427,565]   [310,735]   [225,690]
        [197,367]   [283,253]   [271,563]   [470,729]


     Herbs:

        Fire Thistle                [248,475]
        Swamp Lily                  [657,307]
        Kalmir Herb                 [473,582]


     Special Places:

        Oasis                       [524,155]
        Maelstrom                   [277,75]
        Wind Temple                 [266,635]
        Spring of Life              [670,386]
        Tree hiding weird stone     [538,466]
        Stone lock to Donner's Mine [255,714]
        Gate House (to Luminor's)   [549,675]


  B. Forest Moon

        Dor Kiredon                 [180,130]
        Dor Grestin                 [104,65]; [108,182]
        Dorina's Tree               [64,237]
        Ancient Ruins               [66,69] (via [88,67])
        Airship                     [178,138]
        Blue Leaves                 [90,89]; [115,137]; [112,134]


  C. Morag

        Morag Capital S'angrila     [22,133]
        S'riel palace               [187,91]
        S'orel palace               [33,179]
        S'arin palace               [87,26]
        S'endar palace              [175,127]
        S'trog palace               [15,83]
        S'kat palace                [127,182]
        S'lorwin palace             [127,82]
        Sandboat constructor        [184,189]
        Riding Lizards shop         [78,136]
        Moranian dying of thirst    [18,13]



III. Cheats & Dirty Tricks
--------------------------

This  section  contains  some  cheats  &  programming  quirks  that  can be
exploited  to  ease  gameplay.   Using  them may spoil the game so consider
carefully  whether you want to make use of them or if want to disdain them.
However, I consider some cheats as less dangerous than others and I added a
-  somewhat  personal - evaluation of this.  The more `*' a cheat gets, the
more dishonourable I estimate it's use.


1. Save/Load game trick [*.........]

In  several  places of the game (Gala Temple, Tower of Lebab, Morag council
member  palaces)  you have to make random decisions that get punished badly
when wrong.
In  the Tower of Lebab you have a room with moving holes in the floor.  You
have  to  find  out  the right one to enter a special room one level below.
Choose  one  of  the  other  ones and fall four levels down, perhaps to the
death of some party members, for sure to work up your way back to the holes
to  try  again.   I  consider  it  a basically bad thing to make the player
suffer  for  the  lack of good ideas of the game designers.  Thus, save the
game  before  entering  the  room, choose a hole to jump in and reload your
saved game if the decision was wrong.  Repeat until successful.
REALLY   tough   gamers  accept  this  unfairness,  though,  and  keep  the
jump/heal/run up cycle going until they have success, too.


2. Dance of Death [*.........]

Some  monsters  really  are  a  nuisance  due  to their ability to deal out
critical  hits  -  most  notably  the  magical  guardians  that slash quite
effortless  through the thickest armour.
It  is  possible to make use of the limited game intelligence by performing
what  I  call  the  "Dance  of Death".  Put the two or three quickest party
members  in the first fighting row, keep one free square in the tactic view
between  them.   Let them do a step to the left in one round, a step to the
right in the next round.  The slow guardians keep making holes into the air
and are easily hacked to death with long range weapons thrown from the back
fighting row.
This  is  not  really  a  cheat,  more a means of kicking strong but stupid
monsters  into their asses.  Use it or don't but don't break out into tears
of  regret when your +500 HP, +80 armour Paladin is killed by a single blow
in round one of a fight and your only healer follows him in round two.


3. Never-ending monster pop-up [***.......]

In  the  City  of Spannenberg, before you loot the bandit's hideout you get
ambushed  by  a  group  of two bandits now and then.  After you finish them
off, collect experience, gold and items and exit the menu.  Don't move now.
Instead  centre  the  mouse pointer to make the "Zzz" sign appear and click
the  left  mouse  buttons  several  times.   After  a  short period you get
attacked  again by the same rogues.  Repeat until you cannot carry any more
items, earned some new levels or until you're bored to death.

The same trick works on the cemetery, before you kill Gordon, the gardener,
but  it's  less  profitable  and  more  dangerous  (poison  spells  of  the
zombies).


4. Tower shortcut bug [*****.....]

You  are able to enter the Tower of Lebab by flying through the tower walls
just below its  roof to the basement using the broom.  The broom usually is
not able to cross mountains, so it's clearly a programming bug exploitation
to use this shortcut.


5. Netsrak staff cheat [********..]

Get  the  staff  of  Netsrak  from  the  secret  room behind the chimney in
grandfather's  house.  Take it to Spannenberg and find the place in the far
north  of  the city with the strange, blue-glowing sign "Karsten was here".
"Netsrak"  is  "Karsten" spelled backwards and Karsten Köper was one of the
Thalion programmers.  Face the sign and use the staff.

You  now  enter a secret building, in fact the "Thalion programmer's guild"
where  all  the  Thalion people hang around as extremely mighty characters,
ready  to  join  your party and able to blast off all but the most horrible
monsters by a single wave of hands.
Moreover,  the chests and lockers contain a copy of any item that is needed
in  the  course of solving the game.  Some items (e.g.  the Sword of Mando)
do not exist anywhere else in the game.

Surely  it's  OK to have a look in this secret place and say "Hello" to the
programmers.   You really should not take anything with you from there, not
characters, nor items.


5. Keeping key items [**********]

Several  (good) items have to be parted with to get vital information.  For
example,  you  have to bring the Necromancer's Brooch to Aman, the thief in
"The  Limping  Rogue".   In  return  you  receive the password to enter the
thieves'  guild.   Of  course you may be tempted to keep this item to boost
the abilities of a magician and walk to the riddle mouth straight away.  Be
warned,  though!   A  consistency check function tests if you still own the
brooche  when  entering  the  password  and  punishes you badly, though not
deadly, for cheating.



IV. Known Bugs
--------------

Unfortunately, Amiga Ambermoon is not bug-free. This is to be expected with
a program of  this  complexity,  and  all  bugs  are  not  severe or can be
circumvented  in  some way.

· Graphics  bugs  appear  in the maps of the hill caves and Baron Karsten's
  palace  in  Newlake  (walls  are shown wrong) and to some Wind Gates when
  they get repaired (part of gate column missing).

  Workaround: ignore.

· When  starting/landing the eagle the game terminates occasionally with an
  "out  of  memory  handles"  internal  error.

  Workaround: retry, it does not happen often.

· Some  building  walls  are  penetrable  to the broom when they should not
  (e.g.  Lebab's tower).

  Workaround: ignore or exploit as a cheat.

· The game crashes sometimes when fighting the Dark Mage (Tar) or the Guard
  Demon  and  certain spells are casted upon your party (e.g.  Ice Shower).
  This  is  no  "controlled"  termination but a complete machine crash with
  colourful flashing effects.  The machine has to be rebootet to recover.

  Workaround:  avoid fighting the Dark Mage and the Guard Demon.  There are
  ways to handle both monsters without a fight.

· The  "SP Stealer" spell sometimes drains more spell points from a monster
  than  the  monster  has  available and an underrun occurs in the variable
  holding  the  value.   This  is indicate by showing "***" in the "Monster
  knowledge"  spell  window (unless the monster has more than 999SP anyway)
  and,  in  effect,  gives  the  monster  an inexhaustable supply of magic.
  Moreover,  if  you  do the spell a second time, you'll collect a negative
  amount of spell points, *reducing* your own points.

  Workaround:   Use "SP stealer" only once on any monster.  A second try is
  much less effective anyway.

· The  map  of  the airship is to be uncovered in each of the three landing
  places Temple hangar / Forest Moon / S'angrila hangar.

  Workaround: oh come on...

· You  are  lost on the forest moon if you have no party members with dwarf
  language knowledge with you.

  Workaround: take care this does not happen.

· In  the  second to deepest level of the ancient area on the Forest Moon a
  group  of  Guardians  is  placed  on a rubble heap and is unable to move.
  Sometimes  guardians  trapped  behind energy fences are able to penetrate
  the barriers.

  Workaround: ignore / blast 'em off.

· The  spear  traps  in the palace of S'endar offer you to plunder a nearby
  chest when they hit you.

  Workaround: ignore / avoid the traps.

· Killing Female Tornaks is not rewarded with experience points.

  Workaround: don't mind.